Nowcasting Net Asset Values:
The Case of Private Equity∗
Gregory W. Brown†

Eric Ghysels‡

Oleg Gredil§

First draft – June, 2019
This version – April 7, 2020

∗

We are grateful to the Private Equity Research Consortium and the Institute for Private Capital for
support and data access. We thank Wendy Hu for outstanding research assistance. We thank Mike Aguilar,
Barry Griffiths, Ian Roberts, Erkko Etula, Farshid Asl, Sophie Shive as well as seminar participants at
Chapel Hill and Oxford Private Equity Research Symposiums, Goldman Sachs SQAA group, and 2020 AFA
Annual Meeting for useful comments and suggestions.
†
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Kenan-Flagler Business School and Frank Hawkins Kenan
Institute of Private Enterprise, gregwbrown@unc.edu, (919) 962-9250
‡
Department of Finance, Kenan-Flagler Business School, Department of Economics, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Frank Hawkins Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise, and Centre for Economic
Policy Research (CEPR), eghysels@unc.edu, (919) 962-9810
§
Tulane University, Freeman School of Business, ogredil@tulane.edu, (504) 314-7567

Nowcasting Net Asset Values:
The Case of Private Equity

Abstract
We apply advances in analysis of mix frequency and sparse data to estimate “unsmoothed”
private equity (PE) Net Asset Values (NAVs) at the weekly frequency for individual funds.
Using simulations and a large sample of buyout and venture funds, we show that our method
yields superior estimates of fund asset values than a simple approach based on comparable
public asset and as-reported NAVs. Our method easily accommodates additional data on
PE fund portfolios, such as individual holdings, relevant mergers and acquisitions, secondary
trades with fund stakes; extends to other illiquid portfolios that are subject to appraisal bias
while generating irregular and infrequent cash flows. We find significant variation in systematic and idiosyncratic risk exposures across PE funds and through time. The risk-return
profile based on the samples from the 1990s is not representative of currently operating funds.
The market beta of an average buyout [venture] fund, at 1.05–1.10 [1.20–1.32], is notably
lower than previous studies suggest, while nudging higher exposures results in inferior nowcasts. The overall risk of a median buyout [venture] fund is 33% [38%] per year if measured
in standard deviations of total returns, an increase of 10 [13] percentage points relative to
the series based on as-reported NAVs.

Keywords: Private Equity, Venture Capital, Leveraged Buyouts, Institutional Investors,
State Space Models, Machine Learning
JEL Classification: G23, G24, G30

1

Introduction

Valuing illiquid assets is hard but often necessary to provide critical input for investment
decisions.1 Private equity (PE) investments are a prime example of such a setting whereby
various stakeholders have to rely on infrequently and strategically self-reported Net Asset
Values (NAVs) by fund managers while the secondary markets for most fund stakes are
relatively undeveloped and likely reflect the marginal utility to trade of an unrepresentative
investor.2 However, at least for some PE funds, one has many observations that are plausibly
informative of the market value of the fund portfolio and updated at higher than quarterly
frequencies. These may include characteristics of individual assets held, comparable private
transactions, public returns, the history of fund cash flows, NAV reports and occasional
secondary trades, etc. This paper develops a method of how to use these types of data
jointly in a unified statistical framework to (i) learn about risk, return, and reporting quality
characteristics of individual funds, and (ii) to estimate unbiased asset values at the relevant
data arrival frequency (such as weekly or daily)—i.e., to nowcast PE fund NAVs. Nowcasting
is the prediction of the present, the very near future and the very recent past in economics.
We expand on the methods used in the literature as nowcasting NAVs is more complex than
macroeconomic variables like GDP growth (the most studied example).
We model fund “true” asset values and, correspondingly, “true” returns as the latent
factor in a sparse-data State Space Model (SSM) estimated at high frequencies (relative
to quarterly fund reporting) at an individual PE fund level. Our setup relies on the welldeveloped SSM machinery (see, e.g. Durbin and Koopman, 2012) but allows incorporating
salient properties of asset returns such as heteroskedastic volatility. We evaluate the performance of our method not only not only via simulated data but also using real PE fund data
arriving after the model estimation period. In particular, we examine out-of-sample realized
cash flows versus the levels implied by the model. This provides additional confidence in
1
2

See Brito (1977); Longstaff (2001); Gârleanu (2009); Ang et al. (2014) among others.
See Ewens et al. (2013); Brown et al. (2019) and Nadauld et al. (2016).

1

the SSM parameters that we estimate with the help of machine-learning methods for each of
1,745 funds, or 62% of our sample, independently. For 65% to 80% (depending on the metric) of these funds the model outperforms a naı̈ve but intuitive approach whereby reported
NAVs are extrapolated using cash flows and returns of a comparable public asset.
We show that, with partial imputation of auxiliary parameters using peer funds, we can
estimate fund-level SSMs for over 94% of the sample funds with a 73-86% improvement rate
relatively to the naı̈ve approach. The peer funds are defined as having the same strategy
and/or industry, a vintage within one year and having the same size tercile as the estimand
fund. Our performance assessment metrics are based on the idea that if the fund’s true
returns were observed and used to discount fund cash flows (and the true net asset values),
the fund to-date PMEs (Kaplan and Schoar, 2005) computed using these series would be
equal to one. Furthermore, we show that, given fund-level SSM estimates, the in-sample
performance is a good predictor of the out-of-sample performance, yielding useful criteria
for model selection and forecast combination. Using our estimate of fund NAVs reduces the
out-of-sample forecast error of subsequent cash flows by 55-58% relative to the as-reported
NAVs of a typical fund, with filtered weekly returns featuring zero autocorrelation and
realistic standard deviations (e.g., 33% to 38% per year).
There are two pillars to our approach. One is that we use the individual fund-level data on
cash flows and NAVs simultaneously to identify how NAVs are “smoothed” while jointly estimating the fund’s systematic and idiosyncratic risk exposures. This is different from existing
work featuring the complete fund-level data that either (i) relies on reported NAVs and attempts to remove autocorrelation induced by smoothing via a distributed lag market-model/
panel-AR(p) (Woodward and Hall, 2004; Ewens et al., 2013; Goetzmann et al., 2018), or (ii)
disregards the NAV information altogether and relies solely on funds’ realized cash flow
data (see, inter alia, Driessen et al., 2012; Franzoni et al., 2012; Buchner and Stucke, 2014;
Ang et al., 2018). For a typical fund with say 40 NAV reports and 25 distributions over a
10-year life we gain 22 degrees of freedom as we only need to estimate at most 3 additional

2

parameters. The second pillar is that we unsmooth weekly returns cumulative since a fund’s
inception (rather than per quarter returns, see also Ang 2014).3 This is more consistent with
microfoundations for the smoothing bias whereby appraisers look back for relevant events
within the past quarter to arrive at their valuation assessment.
A key challenge for studies featuring deal-level datasets has been addressing selection
bias in observed deal realizations (typically successful ones) relative to the overall pool of
investments (Cochrane, 2005; Korteweg and Sorensen, 2010). This challenge is mostly resolved in our framework since we use the complete history of fund-level investments. In
our analysis, deal-level data merely help to better identify the fund’s structural risk–return
parameters and the inference about the cumulative return path. In other words, deal-level
data significantly reduce noise for fund SSM estimates and potentially reduce the number of
parameters that require estimation but do not induce selection bias. However, even without
portfolio company data, model performance is improved by augmenting the analysis with
high frequency comparable benchmark returns.
The PE fund sample for this study is provided by Burgiss (see Brown et al., 2015, for
description) and consists of fund-level cash flows between each fund and its investors, fund
NAV reports, as well as data on fund strategy, vintage year, and industry. We do not
observe the information on the fund individual holdings but demonstrate in simulations
that SSM precision improves by a factor of 2-3 for a typical fund even when keeping the
comparable asset match quality unchanged. Observing fund portfolio-level holdings and
their contribution to fund-level NAVs allows us to compute (rather than estimate jointly
with other parameters) the fund distribution density trend and its variance. Utilizing realtime fund holdings data has additional benefits: (i) the construction of a more informative
comparable public benchmark and (ii) incorporating valuations in recent M&A deals, both
public and private, that feature targets similar to the fund current holdings.
3

Note that “detectability” of the smoothing at quarterly frequency implies its “detectability” at weekly
frequency, but not vice verse. For a weekly smoothing at 0.70-rate, quarterly AR(1) is 0.01 but the variance
is only 40% of the unsmoothed series. Thus, regressions at low frequencies never sufficiently unsmooth NAVs.

3

In addition to our methodological contribution, we generate important new findings about
fund-level risk and return. For example, we find fund-level systematic risk (beta) to be lower
than many other recent studies. The average (median) is around 1.05 (1.09) for buyout funds
and 1.20 (1.18) for venture funds, as opposed to averages around 1.25 and 1.80, respectively,
in Ang et al. (2018) even though we used their estimates to setup our profile grid for betas.
Part of this difference results from the fact that most studies do not actually estimate the
market beta of a fund over its life time but rather the beta of the panel of time-aggregated
fund cash flows. The distinction is important when cash flows from funds are clustered in time
and contribute greater weight to the panel (e.g. venture in late 90s). Panel-based estimates
generally will not reflect the beta of an average fund in this case. We provide regression
analyses to support this claim. Moreover, we show that “nudging estimation” to feature
higher systematic risk exposures, as well as ignoring the heterogeneity in other parameters
in the cross section of funds, results in inferior nowcasting performance of the fund-level
SSMs, in-sample and out-of-sample. In other words, higher systematic risk assumptions are
less consistent with the fund-level cash flow realizations.
We find notable variation in systematic and idiosyncratic risk exposures across vintage
years. While we do confirm betas in the vicinity of two for half of venture funds incepted
during late 90s, three-quarters of venture funds incepted after 2004 have beta estimate of less
than 1.4. However, the idiosyncratic risk of venture funds—which we measure as a multiple
of GARCH(1,1)-filtered volatility of matching industry excess returns—has rebounded to a
median of 3× from the 2× lows during 2000–2002. As far as temporal trends in buyout
funds, we note an increase in systematic risk relatively to the levels in the 90s, and a spike
in idiosyncratic risk during 2003-2005. The trends in PE fund abnormal returns are broadly
consistent with those documented in prior literature.
While, in principle, our method supports pooling cash flows and NAV data across funds,
we find that this actually complicates the analysis for a few reasons. First, unlike the cash
flow methods described above, our method does not require a balanced panel of capital calls

4

and distributions over different calendar time intervals to correlate with the sample of risk
factor realizations. In fact, such a pooling implies strong assumptions—e.g., that funds’
systematic and idiosyncratic risk exposures are exogenous from the risk factor realizations.
Second, we find that averaging several funds with different data coverage quality tends
to result in less precise estimates. Instead, it is more efficient and transparent to impute
parameters that are not well-identifiable for a particular fund with peer-based aggregates
or, even, theoretically motivated values. ‘Better data’ in our context means (i) distributions
spanning multiple quarters, (ii) many NAV reports with variation from the previous quarter,
and (iii) a substantially realized fund. This allows us to identify the fund risk exposures
from the appraisal bias (i.e. NAV smoothing). However, provided that there are at least
some meaningful distributions and consistency in NAV reports, we can still recover the
fund-specific systematic risk, average abnormal return, and “unsmoothed” NAV estimates
by treating some parameters as fixed.
Our paper contributes to recent studies that aim at developing “matrix pricing” for the
portfolios of PE funds using either secondary market trades in fund stakes coupled with
a selection model as in Boyer et al. (2018) or a replication of the PE fund returns with
holding-level matches to public comparable firms as in Stafford (2017). Our methodology
effectively nests both approaches while allowing for fund-level heterogeneity in risk exposures
and taking a more structural approach to modeling the fund return process during the
periods in which the data are not observable.4 We also complement contemporaneous work
by Gupta and Van Nieuwerburgh (2019), who use machine learning tools to estimate multifactor time-varying exposures from a panel of PE fund cash flows, as opposed to the bottomup approach that matches on portfolio companies’ characteristics. Both approaches can be
used to construct the comparable public asset for our method. As one of many potential
application of our fund-level approach, we demonstrate how asset allocation decisions using
nowcasted NAVs would have been improved around the 2018 financial crisis (section 4.1).
4

Matching to the transaction-level public benchmarks is embedded in the construction of fund’s comparable asset, utilizing secondary price data amounts to augmenting the observations vector—see Section A.2.1.

5

We argue this case study to be instructive for the valuation challenges that PE fund investors
face during the Covid-19 pandemic.
With regards to methods, our study relates to the nowcasting macroeconomics literature which relies on SSM methods for the purpose of real-time monitoring of real activity
(in particular GDP growth, see for example the survey of Bańbura et al., 2013), and the
literature on forecast combination for the purpose of nowcasting (see, e.g. Andreou et al.,
2013; Kuzin et al., 2013). The closest to our context application of the Kalman filter is
in Korteweg and Sorensen (2010) who use venture-backed company valuation over several
financing rounds and filter the latent value process in-between those rounds.
While we show that our approach is reasonably robust to autocorrelation in the unobserved error terms and the fund idiosyncratic returns not being conditionally Gaussian, some
of the funds’ data features massive outliers. For of all, if the tails are too heavy such that the
variance is near infinite, then obviously the Kalman filter is ill-defined and MLE is infeasible.
This might explain why our iterative procedure does not converge or results in implausible
asset value estimates for about 10% of funds even if almost all parameters are fixed. Minor
departures from normality typically preserve the attractive properties of the Kalman filter
(see, e.g., Schick and Mitter, 1994), although inference is no longer efficient but asymptotically consistent (see for example the discussion regarding QMLE in Gourieroux et al. 1984).
With mild departures, one typically finds residual autocorrelation which indeed also appears
in some of our results. Nonetheless, the Kalman filter deteriorates in the presence of large
outliers and results in invalid inference. There are some remedies for these situations—see,
i.e., Durbin and Koopman (2000) and Durbin and Koopman (2012). They are usually either
computationally involved or require strong auxiliary assumptions such as the precise nature
of the heavy-tailed distribution. For start, we rely on the standard Kalman filtering procedure and simply discard the minority of cases whereby the procedure clearly fails. We leave
the question of handling outliers and reducing misspecifications in modeling PE fund-like
vehicles as SSM for future research.

6

2

Nowcasting Model

Nowcasting is a term coined in meteorology and pertains to the prediction of the present, the
very near future and the very recent past. It has recently become popular in economics as
a method for assessing the current state of an economy. For example, official gross domestic
product (GDP) estimates are only determined after a long delay (and are even then subject
to subsequent revisions) and nowcasting methods can be utilized to generate more timely
estimates for policy and investment decisions.5 Nowcasting is intrinsically a mixed frequency
data problem as the object of interest is a low frequency data series - observed say quarterly
- whereas more real-time information (daily, weekly or monthly) during the quarter can be
used to assess and potentially continuously update the state of the low frequency series, or
put differently, nowcast the series of interest.
There are two types of approaches. The first involves state space models featuring latent
variables, whereas others are based on regression models.6 The fact that a critical part of
our data, i.e. fund cash flows, is observed irregularly, directs our choice towards the SSM
approach. We note that nowcasting can be performed without specifying a model. For
example, PE practitioners often assume that the value of fund assets is equal to the manager
as-reported net asset values on quarter-ends and use a public benchmark return and fund
interim cash flows to interpolate values for dates of interest inside the quarter or extrapolate
beyond the date of latest reported net asset value. This is a reasonable approach but it
makes some very strong assumptions. We will therefore refer to it as a Naı̈ve nowcast of
fund asset values and use it to evaluate the performance of our model-based nowcasts.7
5

See Ghysels et al. (2017) for a recent discussion on data revisions and its impact on financial markets.
The SSMs are estimated via maximum likelihood and using Kalman filtering or smoothing to nowcast
the series of interest. See Nunes (2005) and Giannone et al. (2008) for early examples. In Appendix A.1
we provide a short intro to SSM. The second type of models involves MIDAS regressions, originated by
Ghysels et al. (2006), which are regression models designed to handle data sampled at different frequencies.
7
Formally this approach is given by equation A.10 in Appendix, also referred to as “Rct -interpolated
NAVs”. We also show that it corresponds to a particular parameterization of the fund-level SSM.
6

7

2.1

SSM Representation of a PE Fund

We start with the characterization of the return and cash flow generating processes for a
finite-life (usually around 10 years) PE fund. We assume that time t pertains to a weekly
sampling scheme and use the following notations:
• Ct – week t cash flows from investors to the fund (a.k.a., Capital Calls),
• NAVt – fund net asset values reported at the end of week t,
• Dt – fund distributions to its investors on week t,
• Rmt – the systematic risk factor gross return during week t,
• Rct – the average gross return on publicly traded assets comparable to fund in week t,
• ht – the variance of idiosyncratic return on assets similar to those held by the fund t,
• Rt – the gross return on fund asset for week t,
• Vt – the true value of fund assets at the end of week t.
Note that some of these series are latent. For example, the Vt series are not observed and,
hence, neither are the Rt series. Other series are often missing at the weekly sampling
frequency, for example NAVt is reported by the fund GPs approximately every 13 weeks.
We assume that Rmt and Rct are observed (i.e. not missing) for every week t, and focus
on a case of scalar Rct —i.e., the relevant asset returns are aggregated to a single index.
Accordingly, we proxy for ht with a GARCH(1,1)-filtered variance of the idiosyncratic returns
of Rct (from projection on Rmt ).
Throughout the paper, we use capital letters to denote the levels of variables (e.g.,
Dt for distribution amount) and lowercase to denote the natural logarithm thereof (rt =
log(Rt ), dt = log(Dt ), etc.). A lower case letter followed by (·) refers to scalar-valued
function, e.g. involving data, such as λ(·)t pertaining to λ at time t.

8

2.2

Model Structure and Parameters

We assume the following relations describe the fund return- and cash flow processes:


Rt = α + β(Rmt − 1) + 1 eηt ,

ηt ∼ N(0, F 2 · ht ),

(1)

Rct = ert ·βc +ψ+ηct ,

ηct ∼ N(0, Fc2 · ht ),

(2)

Vt = Vt−1 Rt − Dt + Ct ,

V 0 = C0 − D0 > 0

(3)

R0:t =

t
Y

Rτ ≡ Vt · Mt ,

(4)



(5)

τ =1



r̄0:t = 1 − λ(·)t r0:t + λ(·)t r̄0:t−1 ,
NAVt = er̄0:t −mt +nt ,


Dt = δ(·)t Vt + Dt edt

iff Dt > 0,

nt ∼ N(0, σn2 )

(6)

dt ∼ N(0, σd2 ),

(7)

governed by the following set of parameters collectively referred to as θ:
• β — fund market risk exposure;
• α — the fund average return per week unexplained by the market risk;
• βc and ψ — respectively, the slope and intercept from a regression of the comparable
asset weekly log returns on those of the fund;
• F and Fc — the scales for the conditional variance ht of distributions from which the
innovations in returns, ηt and ηct , are independently drawn from;
• λ — the structural parameter(s) of the fund appraisal bias function λ(·)t ;
• δ — the structural parameter(s) of the fund distribution rule δ(·)t conditional on a
distribution event on week t;
• σn and σd – respectively, the standard deviations on the NAV reporting noise and
distribution rule.
It is worth emphasizing that we are agnostic about the economic interpretation of α-parameter.
It could be, for example, a compensation for the liquidity risk incurred by the fund investors.
Loadings on fund-specific liquidity risk proxies or other priced factors can be examined via

9

cross sectional regressions of fund-level α-estimates. Neither does this α reflect any market
timing effects resulting from the schedule of fund cash flows as studied in Gredil (2018).
Applying log transformations to equations (1) through (7), except for (5) which is already
in log form, yields a SSM as detailed in Appendix Section A.2.8 As follows from equations (1)
and (5) NAV appraisal bias is modeled as pertaining to both, systematic and idiosyncratic,
components of fund returns. Also, because t indexes weeks, the model accounts for returns
between the quarterly report dates. Accordingly, the predictable component of the appraisal
bias is represented by the deterministic function λ(·)t which, in our baseline analysis, we
assume to have the following form:
λ(·)t : = λ · (1 − wt ) ,

(8)

where λ ∈ (.01, 0.99) is a scalar parameter reflecting the exponential moving average weight
and wt ∈ [0, 1] are the observed fractions of the fund gross assets that the cash flow in period
t comprises in the naı̈ve nowcast of fund asset value. This functional form implies a “firstin-first-out” assumption about the fund investment–divestment cycle. All else equal, funds
that made substantial distributions recently would be assumed to have “less stale” NAVs.
Meanwhile, the weight of returns occurring before period τ (0 < τ < t) in N AVt is limited
by the fraction of fund capital invested before period τ .
Note that, because equation (5) pertains to cumulative (i.e., since-inception) returns of
the fund—R0:t , we actually model a smoothing of NAVs rather than smoothing of periodic
returns. This is a particularly relevant perspective as it allows us to interpret the reported
NAVs as a weighted-average of valuation snapshots taken at different points in the past.
Furthermore, as follows from the equation, most of the weight may come from weeks within
the past quarter (rather than from ending values of the previous quarters) corresponding
to a realistic assumption about how the actual appraisal of fund assets is performed. This
assumption distinguishes our approach from the extant literature that attempts to unsmooth
8
In addition, Appendix A.2.1 contains examples providing further intuition and discusses generalizations
(e.g., incorporating longer-term or event-specific “memory”). Likewise, Appendix A.2.2 provides further
generalizations (e.g., incorporating PE secondary market prices).

10

quarterly returns inferred from NAV changes.9 However, since PE funds normally incur
interim capital calls and distributions, cumulative returns are generally not equal to the
asset values (scaled by initial investment). Therefore we introduce a mapping function—Mt
(which mt is a log of), implicitly defined by equations (4) and (6). It is a step-function which
accounts for the history of cash flows and valuations and is further discussed in Section 2.4.
For the distribution rule δ(·)t , we assume:
δ(·)t : = min(0.99, δ · ty ) ,

(9)

where δ ∈ (0, 1) is a scalar parameter, whereas ty is the time (in years) elapsed since the fund
inception. Constraining the domain of δ(·)t has clear economic intuition—until it is known
that the fund is resolved, it has to be that Dt is non-negative and Vt > δ(·)t (Vt + Dt )edt .
The economic interpretation for δ and σd is, respectively, the trend and the noise of
the distribution density. Given equal number of distribution and intervals between them,
funds with higher δ will tend to return capital faster. Overall there is relatively little insight
that can be learned from (δ, σd ). One can think of these as just auxiliary parameters relating distributions—which reveal the true (i.e., unsmoothed value) of the parts of the fund
portfolio—and the reported NAVs, therefore allowing for inference about λ and σn ). If the
fund individual investments’ valuation reports and exit proceeds were observed, then δ(·)t
need not be estimated. Instead it could be computed as a fraction of the previous quarter
portfolio-level NAVs that the sold assets had comprised. Furthermore, under the assumption
that the excess return (relative to the overall fund portfolio) is zero during the exit quarter,
dt is also zero, which makes σd a redundant parameter too. In that case, dt + mt maps
without uncertainty to the true to-date return r0:t .
9

See e.g. Ewens et al. (2013); Goetzmann and Phalippou (2019). Appendix shows that unsmoothing of
the intra-quarter appraisal bias cannot be done using the inter-quarter returns only.

11

2.3

Other Estimands of Interest

Given the data observed for week t = 1, ..., T and parameters θ, we can apply the Kalman
filter to obtain estimates of fund returns over each week.10 We then apply the mapping
function Mt in equation (4) to obtain the estimate of the fund asset values. We use the
following notation to emphasize that these estimates are functions of a particular θ and the
θ,T
ending period T : R̂tθ,T , R̂τθ,T
, which are conditional on θ and data up to period T.
:t , and V̂t

Note that the parameters in θ are not necessarily obtained through econometric estimation.
As discussed later, they can also be determined via imputations, or values taken from the
prior literature.
In some cases the returns and asset value nowcasts do not depend on whether one can
actually estimate the parameter vector θ. For example, the naı̈ve nowcast that we described
earlier is given by a θ in which βc = 1, Fc = σn = 0, and (α, β, F ) are given from a
regression of Rct on Rmt . In other words, the filtering step is completely independent from
the parameter estimation step that we discuss in the next section.
For each fund and θ of interest, we compute:
1. Variances and autocorrelations of the filtered weekly returns between t = 1 and t = T
using the standard estimators at weekly and quarterly frequency;
2. P M E(θ, T )0:t Kaplan and Schoar PMEs on a to-date basis (Brown et al., 2019) that
utilize filtered returns and asset values along with the complete history of fund cash
flows realized up to period t.
3. P M E(θ, T )τ :t PMEs on the to-date basis in which capital calls up to period τ < t are
θ,T
replaced with V̂τθ,τ and R̂0:t
are replaced with R̂τθ,T
:t .

While implausibly high (or low) variance and autocorrelations of filtered return in (1)
provide straightforward diagnostics of the model misspecification and the sensitivity to different parametrizations, variables in (2)–(3) are the building blocks to nowcasting performance
10

We use backward recursion as given by equation (A.3) in the Appendix to utilize information before and
after a given week to infer (i.e. filter) the return over that week as well the cumulative return up to it.

12

metrics. They are based on the simple idea that the NPV of cash flows will be zero if true
fund returns are used for discounting. Specifically, we define the following three metrics, so
that each can be interpreted as a fund-specific pricing error:
1. In-Sample RMSE – mean squared difference of P M E(θ, T )0:t from one over the
period t = τ0 , ..., τ where τ0 and τ are within the span of data used to estimate θ;
2. Out-of-Sample (OOS) RMSE – mean squared deviation of P M E(θ, T )τ :T from
one such that no fund-specific data beyond week τ − 1 is used to estimate θ;
3. Hybrid RMSE – mean squared deviation of P M E(θ, T )0:t from one over periods
t = τ, ..., T such that no fund-specific data beyond week τ − 1 is used to estimate θ. It
is a hybrid between in-sample and out-of-sample data because, even though it utilizes
the out-of-sample NAVs only, all since-inception cash flows are included. Therefore,
the data partially overlaps with the estimation sample.
The advantage of the OOS metric is that it directly compares the model-predicted asset
values (with the information up to that date only) with subsequent realizations of the cash
flows without a risk of over-fitting to the data used in either filtering or parameter estimation
(which we discuss next). The OOS metric may be ambiguous to interpret for funds that are
far from being resolved and lacks power when NAV reporting noise, σn , is very high.11 In
contrast, the in-sample metric pertains to the structural stability of the model under the
estimated parameters and averages-out the noise. However, it might not be informative if
the parameter estimation (or return filtering) involves a minimand proportional to the square
of logPME. In that sense, the Hybrid metric is a compromise that, at the very least, enables
a comparison of the pricing errors under different θ for a given fund.
11

OOS metric will be biased towards rejecting our SSM estimates in favor of ’Rct -interpolated’-NAVs for
unresolved funds. To see this, consider a situation in which there were no distributions after τ so that the
’Rct -interpolated’-NAVs ratio will be exactly as in equation (A.10) yielding a zero error.

13

2.4

Parameter Estimation

We estimate the parameter vector θ for each fund in our sample using a combination of two
methods: (i) maximum likelihood (ML) and (ii) (partial) imputation. In both cases, we
utilize a penalty function in spirit of ridge estimators per Le Cessie and Van Houwelingen
(1992), and an iterative procedure in spirit of Expectation Maximization (EM) algorithm
per Dempster et al. (1977).
As discussed in the introduction, our method exploits simultaneously cash flow and reported NAV information. It allows us to obtain fund-specific estimates of the parameter
vector for a majority of funds, independently from data and/or parameters from other funds.
Nevertheless, the span of distributions and innovations in NAV reports for many funds are
simply insufficient to identify all parameters independently (the following section provides
specific criteria). In such cases we resort to imputation. Another reason for adopting this
strategy is that some parameters might not vary much across fund groups, so there are efficiency gains from imputing parameters across peer funds or using estimates reported in the
existing literature. We also find that a partial imputation approach for parameters dominates
the pooling of the data across funds.
In the following subsections, we describe key steps and features of the two approaches we
consider: (1) fund-specific estimates and (2) partially imputed methods. In both, we obtain
standard error estimates for every parameter in θ using the numerical Hessian method as
in Miranda and Fackler (2004). We conclude the section with a synopsis of Monte Carlo
simulation results that illustrate parameter estimation efficiency and nowcasting performance
across different degrees of model misspecification and data quality.12
The important feature of PE fund data is that distributions almost never occur on the
day of NAV reports. This fact allows us to identify σd from σn —the non-persistent noise
parameter on NAV reports. Meanwhile, the sparseness and irregularity in the distribution
12

In the Appendix we provide (i) technical details about the estimation (Section A.3), (ii) a description of
the Monte Carlo setup and results (Section A.4), as well as (iii) a single-fund case study that illustrates the
intuition behind the key steps and assumptions (Section A.4.1).

14

and NAV vectors mitigates the effect of the autocorrelation in the observed residuals that
arises due to the possible misspecification of both δ(·)t and λ(·)t . We scrutinize this claim in
our simulation and empirical analysis.

2.4.1

Fund-specific estimates

It is well established that identifying just α and β in PE is difficult even when data is
pooled across many funds (e.g., see Ljungqvist and Richardson, 2003; Driessen et al., 2012;
Ang et al., 2018). To estimate the 10-dimensional parameter vector θ by fund, we therefore
proceed in two steps. The goal of the first step is to find the fund-specific α and β that fit
the SSM well while satisfying an additional NPV-based restriction. We pursue this goal via
a profile likelihood method augmented with a penalty function (see, e.g. Ghysels and Qian,
2019, for details). In the second step, we iteratively estimate the remaining 8 parameters in
θ and the value-to-return mapping function m̂t .
To implement the first step, we build a 15-by-15 grid of plausible values for α and β
based on range of estimates obtained from the prior literature. Specifically, in case of a
buyout fund, β ranges between 0.668 and 1.831 with a mean of 1.25 and corresponding 15
probability quantiles—0.01, 0.05, .125, ..., 0.875, 0.95, 0.99; guided by estimates in Ang et al.
(2018).13 We center the α-range at the annualized estimate of fund-level excess returns from
the Kaplan and Schoar (2005) PME method which happens to be 20.5% per year or 0.38%
per week (see Appendix equation (A.11) for details). We consider seven equally spaced
values up to +/-3.5% per year from the each side of the α-range center.
For each of the 225 (α, β)-pairs on the grid we (i) obtain the likelihood score corresponding
to the MLE estimate of (δ, λ, F, σn , σd ) in which (α, β) are kept fixed at the respective grid
values and rct is dropped from the observations vector; (ii) evaluate the pricing error that
the (α, β)-pair implies against the fund cash flows.14
Following Ang et al. (2018), β ∼ N(1.25, 0.25), N(1.80, 0.30), and N(0.77, 0.23) for buyout, venture, and
real estate funds respectively.
14
Regarding step (i), the last row in Z̃t and H̃t of the matrix representation of SSM in (A.1) are dropped
while the transition equation remains unchanged. The comparable asset helps with nowcasting but is redun13

15

In the second step, we estimate the remaining 8 parameters (collected in the subvector
ϑ), via maximum likelihood while keeping α and β at their optimized profile levels. We use
Rct -interpolated NAVs as the estimate for Vt (see equation (A.8) for details) to construct the
initial asset-to-value mapping. We then iteratively update the mapping function utilizing
equations (A.14–A.16) and re-estimate ϑ using the new mapping until the change in those
ϑ parameters from the previous iteration is below the threshold (eq. A.17).

2.4.2

Partially imputed estimates

Here again we proceed in several steps. First, we estimate α, β, and λ. However, now we
profile α and λ on a 15-by-7 grid, whereby the range for α is determined as before while λ
is centered around that of the peer fund median. Recall that λ is essentially the exponential
moving-average weight, constrained to be below 1 and above 0. We therefore, define the
range of λ in terms of its probit function’s z-score distance from the center.15
As for β, we treat it as a free parameter in the first step but constrained to vary within
just one standard deviation (using again Ang et al. (2018) estimates by fund type) from that
of the peer funds (henceforth, β-anchor). We continue applying the penalty function to the
profiled likelihood grid. However, now the penalty measures the distance from zero for the
autocorrelation of filtered returns (see Section 2.3) obtained from a nowcast with only Rmt .
In doing so, we mitigate forcing too high or too low smoothing intensity upon the fund from
its peers. We find this approach to be more informative about the (β, λ) pair location (than
the PME-based penalty discussed above) when the fund exhibits only several quarters with
meaningful distributions.16
In the second step, we iterate the return-to-value mapping function and the remaining free
parameters until convergence as we do with the fund-specific estimates, however we always
keep F and σn fixed to the median of the peer funds. Therefore, this EM-like procedure
dant for Rm -related parameter identification. Regarding step (ii) –see equation A.12.
15
We consider a range from −0.75 to +0.75 with 0.25 increment.
16
Effectively, this “nudges” lower autocorrelation magnitudes in the filtered return series.

16

(cfr. Dempster et al. 1977) involves only 5 parameters (rather than 8 under the fund-specific
estimation approach).
In both steps, the peer fund estimates are defined as medians of the respective parameter
estimated independently. The next section examines several ways to define peer funds. We
include the fund’s own fund-specific estimates to compute the peer group median. For β,
we additionally consider setting the center of the distribution to be equal to the estimates
in the literature by fund type (Ang et al., 2018).

2.5

Simulation Experiment Summary

An extensive simulation study is conducted to examine the performance of our method with
regards to both parameter estimation and nowcasting performance. One of the focus areas in
this simulation experiment is the consequences of the model misspecification relatively to the
true data generating process. For example, we introduce discontinuous jumps in the funds’
idiosyncratic return processes (as in Korteweg and Nagel 2017) contrary to the assumption
that those are conditionally Gaussian, and examine cases in which the assumed distribution
function (equation 9) is different from the true one.
For brevity, we defer the details to Appendix A.4 where we examine a single case step-bystep process and report extensive summaries for a realistic panel of simulated funds. Below
we summarize the main takeaways.
1. Nearly all parameters are consistently estimated despite realistically high idiosyncratic
noise in fund returns (unconditionally 40% per year); the typical estimation error on
fund-specific estimates (α, β, λ) is (0.002,0.359,0.054). Cross-sectional variation in α
and β is statistically detectable within as few funds as a hundred.
2. The only key parameter that is affected by non-Gaussian jumps in the true return
process is the volatility scale F , which attenuates to a median of 1.5x from the true
(assumed) level of 2.0, while the noise level in NAV reports is over-estimated with a
0.055 median relatively to a true value of 0.050. However, this bias vanishes if deal17

level NAVs are utilized (i.e. δ()˙ t and σd are computed rather than estimated), while
the efficiency of α and β estimation approaches that of the weekly OLS regressions
estimates that assume fund returns are observable). Reasonable misspecification of
the distribution function has virtually no effect on the consistency and efficiency of key
parameter estimates.
3. Under the assumption that the true parameters are similar to those of the peer funds,
partial imputation discussed in Section 2.4.2 reduces the estimation error on β and λ
by a factor 1.2 to 1.6 but leads to slightly large estimation errors for α.
4. Using the OOS metric, the median nowcast error is about 0.12 in the baseline fundspecific case (0.07 if deal-level data are utilized) versus 0.28 with naı̈ve nowcast, yielding
an improvement of 74%. With respect to the Hybrid metric, the model estimates result
in smaller nowcast errors for 85-95% of simulated funds and are on average 10-times
smaller than those from naı̈ve nowcasts. Partial imputation of parameters also yields
a modest improvement in the nowcasting performance.
Overall, the simulations suggest that parameter estimation and nowcasting performance
are promising using our methods and that the results are not particularly sensitive to distributional and functional form misspecifications.

3

Empirical Results

In this section, we report results for parameter estimates and nowcasting performance for the
sample of private equity funds provided by Burgiss (see Brown et al., 2015, for description).
The data include fund-level history of cash flows between each fund and its investors, fund
NAVs reports for most quarters, as well as time-invariant data such as fund strategy, vintage
year, and industry based on 8 Global Industry Classification sectors. We use this industry
designation to select a comparable asset as from the S&P500 [MSCI global] subindex for
funds that are classified as focused on North America [Rest of the World] investments. We

18

use the CRSP value-weighted index for market returns.

3.1

PE Fund Sample

Table 1 reports basic summary statistics separately for 1,437 buyout and 1,142 venture funds
in Panels A and B, respectively.17 This is a subset of the Burgiss Manager universe as of
December 2017. It includes the funds that satisfy the following criteria:
• vintage year is between 1983 and 2008,
• operated for at least 23 quarters,
• reported NAV values for at least 10 quarters,
• made at least two distributions,
• have at least two peer funds for which we obtain fund-specific estimates (Section 2.4.1).
The peers are defined as funds of the same type (i.e. buyout or venture) with vintage
years within a year of the fund of interest, and the same size tercile within the strategy.
For feasibility of fund-specific estimates, we additionally require at least five quarters during
which the distributions exceed 5% of fund size and tighten the requirement for the fund
resolution status so that the latest reported NAV does not exceed half of its cumulative
distributions.
These filters drop 119 buyout and 57 venture funds from our sample. We note that
the excluded funds tend to have lower returns and smaller size. For example, the excluded
venture funds had median size/PME of $27mln/0.76 as opposed to $163mln/0.81 for the
included funds. These differences are even larger for the buyout sample at $49/0.95 for
excluded and $399/1.06 for included. Nevertheless, once adjusted for vintage averages, the
differences in performance are statistically insignificant (t-stat of -1.15 for the combined
sample). Furthermore, the excluded funds comprise just less than 2% and 1%, respectively,
of buyout and venture funds and of capital committed. We therefore argue that our estimates
17
We classify all none-venture equity-focused (i.e. not debt or mezzanine) funds as buyouts except growth
equity / expansion capital. We examine subcategories later in our analysis.

19

are informative of the PE fund universe available for U.S. institutional investors. However,
we do not claim that all our parameter estimates are free of possible selection bias. In
particular, our approach effectively assumes that funds with larger number of distributions
are more indicative of the systematic and idiosyncratic risk exposures within the respective
fund cohort. We note however that this assumption is also present (but in a much stronger
form) in studies that utilize only fund cash flow information for inference about PE riskreturn, as discussed in the introduction.
The last rows of each panel show a cash flow characteristic that is important for the
application of our method (see, e.g, the case study in Appendix Section A.4.1), the number
of quarters with meaningful distributions. It follows that a quarter of buyout funds have
5 or fewer quarters with distributions that exceed 5% of fund size. For venture funds the
corresponding number is only 4. This reduces the feasibility of fund-specific estimates for the
venture sample to a greater extent. We focus on relatively mature funds so we can evaluate
the nowcasting performance.18

3.2

Fund-specific estimates

Table 2 reports summary statistics for fund-specific estimates of SSM parameters and the
assessment of the associated nowcasts. As described in Sections 2.4.1 and 3.1, identification
of these utilizes only the data from the respective fund (besides any matched public benchmarks) and requires a relatively high number of quarters with substantial distributions made
by the fund. We are able to obtain such fund-specific parameter estimates for 1,745 PE fund
which corresponds to 62% of the fund sample described in Table 1. In subsequent sections,
we will break down selected parameter and nowcasting metrics by fund type and provide a
more granular analyses via multivariate regressions.
18

Appendix Table A.2 reports summary statistics for PE Real Estate funds, which we also examine in our
study and apply similar filters to.

20

3.2.1

Parameters

Panel A of Table 2 displays selected statistics for the 10-dimensional parameter vector θ. We
observe that the average [median] α of PE funds with fund-specific estimates is 4.8 [0.036]%
per year with an interquartile range of 13.7%. As alluded to earlier, it is not necessarily
representative of a typical fund’s risk-adjusted return since these funds are likely to have a
greater fraction of successful deals that resulted in large distribution amounts happening at
different points of their lives. The loading on the public market return is 1.19 on average,
ranging from 0.668 at the 10th percentile to 1.979 at the 90th. It is somewhat lower than
the 1.25 [1.80] mean βs for buyout and venture from Ang et al. (2018), which we used to
build our profiling grids. This suggests that the penalized Likelihood attains its maximum
at lower values for β..
The third row of Panel A reports the scale coefficient estimate on our proxy of timevarying idiosyncratic risk. It shows that the standard deviation of idiosyncratic returns for a
typical PE fund is 2.59 times the GARCH(1,1)-filtered idiosyncratic volatility of the matched
industry index. However, we note the large dispersion for this parameter. While it is equal
or smaller than 0.18 for 10% of the funds, it is greater than 5.49 for a quarter of funds. In
fact, for over 10% of funds it hits the upper bound of 10 that we imposed in each estimation.
This suggest that the idiosyncratic volatility parameter is hard to identify at the individual
fund level. However, it seems plausible to assume F is similar across funds within the same
strategy-, vintage-, and size cohort and we utilize this assumption subsequently.
The next two rows of Panel A report summaries of parameters that characterize reporting
quality by PE funds. First, as follows from the percentile ranks of λ, PE fund NAVs indeed
tend to exhibit a very high degree of appraisal smoothing. The median of 0.951 implies
that public market valuations from five or more weeks ago comprise 77.4% (= 0.9515 ) of a
typical fund NAV report. This exponential weight is consistent with the AR(2) coefficients of
about (0.5,0.3) on quarterly return series derived from reported NAVs. Our results suggest
substantially less smoothing for about the bottom quarter of funds—e.g., λ is 0.869 or less,
21

suggesting persistence of only about 0.16 or less at quarterly frequency.
We observe that the average [median] NAV noise—the standard deviation in NAVs that
the SSM cannot attribute to past or future returns—is 4.6 [3.1]%. For some funds it appears
to be implausibly high or low—e.g., 15.6% per the 90th percentile, the lower bound of 0.1%
for over a quarter of funds. Thus, this parameter also appears hard to identify reliably. Just
as with the idiosyncratic risk levels, we subsequently use the fact that these are plausibly
similar across peer funds.19
Panel A also reports δ and σd which govern the fund distribution process. While auxiliary in nature, they need to be estimated for each fund to reflect the heterogeneity in the
distribution magnitudes (given the assumed functional form of δ(·)). Here we just note that
for the vast majority of funds both parameters are well within the upper (0.9 and 4) or lower
(0.001) bounds imposed on the estimation.
The last three rows of Panel A report parameters that govern the mapping of the comparable asset to the latent fund returns at the weekly frequency, as per equation (2), representing
the intercept, slope, and the variance scale. Because returns are in logs and the regression
is essentially a reverse one (i.e. factor series on fund series), some caution is required with
their interpretations. In particular, even though the average and median ψ are positive at
about 3% per year, it does not mean that the funds underperformed those industry benchmarks since the intercept is shifted upward by the 0.5var(ηct )-term. Moreover, the average
[median] βc of 0.79[.812] does not imply that rt are less risky than rct . Instead, βc is inversely
proportional to the loading of rt on rct . Finally, all else equal, lower levels of Fc estimates
can indicate two situations: (i) better match of the comparable asset to the fund, and/or (ii)
overestimated risk level of the fund.20 For a given variance of rct and rmt , the variance of ηct
has to go down if either β or F increases. Therefore, examining the nowcasting performance
sheds light on whether we are in situation (i) or (ii).
19

Naturally they relate to fund investments’ type, portfolio diversification and operating period.
To see this, approximate the log of equation (1) with rt = α∗ + βrmt + ηt , and substitute it in the log
of equation (2). This results in rct = ψ + βc α∗ + βc βrmt + βc ηt + ηct .
20

22

3.2.2

Properties of filtered returns

Panel B of Table 2 compares the autocorrelations and variances of fund returns obtained
from a naı̈ve nowcast that uses reported NAVs with those from fund-specific SSM estimates.
We compare series at two frequencies—weekly and quarterly. For the naı̈ve nowcast, the
quarterly series correspond to NAV-changes adjusted for the value of within-quarter cash
flows, discounted at the industry benchmark returns. Whereas the weekly naı̈ve nowcast
assumes the asset values track the industry benchmark on top of the interpolated betweenquarter change in PME (as from equation A.10). We see that those series suggest a rather
high positive autocorrelation of 41–56% for the typical fund and over 71–89% for a tenth of
the sample. Interestingly though, for another tenth of the sample we observe no meaningful
correlation in naı̈vely nowcasted returns. Meanwhile the variances subpanel, suggests that
the annualized standard deviation of returns for the middle half of PE funds is between
16.7% and 32.8%.
The SSM-based return nowcasts are obtained via the Kalman filter at weekly frequency
as explained in Section 2.3. We then aggregate these filtered estimates to the quarterly
frequency by summation of the log returns within each quarter. Panel B shows that autocorrelation of SSM-based fund returns is virtually zero at both frequencies on average (and
for the median fund) and is within 10% of zero at the weekly frequency for the middle two
quartiles. Meanwhile, the variance of filtered returns is a factor of 2 to 2.6 higher than under
the naı̈ve nowcast, suggesting the annualized standard deviations between 24.5% and 54.7%
for the middle two-quartiles.
While these results suggest the SSM-filtered returns are more representative of the true
return process than one inferred from reported NAVs, we note that for a substantial minority
of funds the SSM nowcast exhibit fairly extreme autocorrelations. For example, one-fifth of
the fund sample exhibits the autocorrelation of filtered returns in excess of +0.47 or below
-0.37 at the quarterly frequency. This is likely driven by the model (e.g., λ(·)t and δ(·)t ) or
parameter misspecification, and can be addressed on the case-by-case basis in practice. We
23

also note that usage of the backward induction with the Kalman filter likely underestimates
the variance of the latent return series, and, hence, overestimates the magnitude of the
correlations.21 To examine the scope of this bias, the last row of Panel C reports the variance
estimate of fund returns derived from the fund parameter and benchmark variance estimates.
Indeed, we see that these are a factor of 1.5 higher than with filtered returns, suggesting that
the typical PE fund total risk is about 44%, if measured by annualized standard deviation.

3.2.3

Nowcasting performance

Panel C of Table 2 reports fund-level nowcasting performance metrics introduced in Section 2.3. First, we note that the out-of-sample RMSEs are similar to the in-sample RMSEs
and are positively correlated, as evident from Figure 1 (especially on the pseudo-out-ofaample basis in Panel A). Thus, the in-sample pricing error is a useful predictor for nowcasting performance as suggested by the simulations discussed in Section 2.5.
Second, SSM-based RMSEs are notably smaller than those from the naı̈ve nowcast, again
as suggested by simulations. For a typical fund, the Hybrid RMSE reduces from 0.34 to
0.097 while the fully-out-of-sample values drop from 0.25 to 0.146 and are sizable across
all percentiles. Figure 2 shows that improvements are largest for funds with relatively large
naı̈ve nowcast errors and that the SSM-based nowcasts are materially inferior to the reported
NAVs only when the latter happen to be particularly good—e.g., to the left of log MSE of
-5 on the x-axis, which corresponds to the RMSE of less than 8.2%.
Across the buyout and venture sample, SSM-based nowcasts with fund-specific parameter
estimates result in smaller Hybrid [OOS] RMSE than the naı̈ve nowcast for 80% [65%] of
individual funds [untabulated]. Our analysis also indicates that the gains are higher when a
portfolio of funds is concerned since the SSM-based nowcast errors are less correlated than
those from the naı̈ve approach.
21

The fact that the autocorrelation magnitudes are notably smaller at weekly frequency is also consistent
with this explanation since the bias gets cumulated within a quarter.

24

3.3

Partially imputed estimates by fund type

Next, we examine partially imputed parameter estimates as described in Section 2.4.2 and
compare the nowcast performance with that generated by fund-specific estimates. Most
importantly, the partial imputation enables us to obtain parameter estimates for approximately 95% of the sample funds and, therefore, provide a plausibly representative picture of
the institutional PE fund universe.
We consider three ways to define peer funds. First, in what we will refer to as Peerimputed we set F , σn as well as the centers of β-anchor and λ-grid to the median values
of the respective fund-specific parameter values for funds of the same strategy (buyout of
venture) incepted in the same or adjacent vintage year. Additionally, if there are three
or more peer funds in the same size tercile, we limit the peer group to those peers funds
only. We then attempt to further narrow the peer group to at least three funds in the same
industry of specialization.
Second, we take the opposite approach and set the four imputed values to the buyout
or venture fund average in what we refer to as Average-imputed. Finally, we reset the βanchor to the strategy-specific estimate from Ang et al. (2018) in what we refer to Literatureimputed, while keeping λ-grid, F , and σn same as in the Average-imputed case.
Accordingly, we compare the SSM nowcast performance metrics introduced in Section 2.3
under these four different sets of parameters. This exercise sheds light on three important
questions: (i) is there a meaningful time-series variation in PE fund risk-return profile,
(ii) how big is the noise reduction benefit from restricting the fund-specific parameters,
(iii) are our systemic risk exposure estimates more consistent with the fund-level cash flow
observations than previously established in the literature?22
22

Ang et al. (2018) encompass the previous literature estimates as priors for Bayesian MCMC.

25

3.3.1

Buyout funds

Table 3 reports selected parameters estimates and nowcast performance metrics for the three
imputation methods alongside with the fund-specific estimates. The latter are available for
1,105 funds, while the partial imputation increases the coverage to 1,391 funds (96.7% of the
sample per Panel A of Table 1). For the remaining 3.3% the MLE does not converge.
In Panel A, we focus on how key parameter estimates, namely α and β, very across
estimation methods. We observe that the average and median α estimates of 2.6 to 4.0% are
lower for peer- and average-imputed estimates in comparison to the 5.2-5.3% in fund-specific
estimates sample. However, these are still notably higher than the near-zero values for the
literature-imputed estimates. These also stand out with notably higher βs at 1.55/1.59 on
average/median, especially against the 1.04–1.10 range for mean and medians in fund-specific
and peer-imputed cases.
Additionally, in Panel A we examine the smoothing parameter λ, as well as the variance
scale on comparable asset parameter, Fc , to support the diagnostics discussed in the closing
paragraph of Section 3.2.1. We note that Fc levels go up in peer-imputed versus fund-specific
and partially drop back with the average- and literature-imputed estimates. Meanwhile, we
observe no meaningful variation in the smoothing rate across estimation types in means but
a 3-5pp increase in percentiles below 75th as we go from the peer- to literature-imputed.
Panel B reports quarterly autocorrelations and variances of filtered returns in comparison with those from the naı̈ve approach. The latter are computed for the partially-imputed
sample and suggest similar levels of autocorrelation 40.5% as the fund-specific estimates
sample reported in Table 2 (which includes venture funds), and a total level of risk corresponding to an annualized standard deviation of returns of 23% for a typical fund. We
note that fund-specific and peer-imputed returns have very similar summary statistics, with
the typical autocorrelation being a bit closer to zero for peer-imputed (0.026 versus 0.074)
and the total risk corresponding to 33-34% return standard deviation per year.23 Mean23

This is a result of “nudging” via the penalty function as discussed in section 2.4.2.

26

while, the filtered returns from average- and literature-imputed estimates have a factor in
the range of 1.5–1.7 higher variances, which translates into annualized standard deviations
of 41–44% for the median fund and over 51% for the funds in the top quartile of total risk.
As for the autocorrelations, the interquartile ranges is similar to that of fund-specific and
peer-imputed but shifted downwards by about 10pp and 15pp, respectively, for average- and
literature-imputed.
Finally, Panel C of the table reports summary statistics for the nowcasting performance
and reveals that the partially-imputed estimates have lower nowcast errors and higher improvement rates relative to the naı̈ve nowcast on both Hybrid and OOS basis. However,
performance monotonically declines as we move from peer- to literature-imputed estimates.
For example, the median OOS RMSE with literature-imputed β-anchor is 0.173 and 27%
higher than peer-imputed estimates but nevertheless 42% lower than the naı̈ve nowcast.
Overall, Table 3 suggests the following conclusions. Peer-imputed estimates dominate
other partially-imputed estimates and benefit from a noise suppression relative to the fundspecific estimates for a majority of cases. Nonetheless, heterogeneity in parameters appears
genuine across buyout funds.24 Forcing higher levels of fund systematic risk tends to not
reduce the autocorrelation magnitudes but, in contrast, seems to amplify the degree of model
misspecification across buyout funds.

3.3.2

Venture funds

Table 4 reports the same analyses as in Table 3 but for the venture fund sample. Fundspecific estimates are available for 640 funds, while the partial imputation increases the
coverage to 1,052 funds (92.1% of the venture sample).
From Panel A, we see that differences between the fund-specific and peer-imputed in α
as well as β estimates for venture funds appear more stark than those in the buyout sample.
At 1.196, the average peer-imputed β is 0.18 lower than that of fund-specific, albeit the
24
In untabulated analyses, we find that the performance gap between peer-imputed and fund-specific
estimates vanishes with funds for which in-sample RMSE from SSM is better then from the naı̈ve approach.

27

difference in medians is less than half of that. Most notably, the mean [median] α estimates
at 4.8 [0.5]% for fund-specific case are sharply higher than the 0.1 [-2.7]% levels for peerimputed case, and especially so when compared to -3.6 [-6.4]% in the literature-imputed
case. As with buyouts, the latter case is characterized with more than 0.5 higher βs.
Turning to the filtered return analyses in Panel B, we observe a similar pattern as with
buyout funds. Namely, there is a notable and roughly equal reduction in autocorrelations
relative to the naı̈ve method, and a shift towards negative levels for average- and literatureimputed relative to the fund-specific and peer-imputed. The gap in variances of filtered
returns is less pronounced than in buyout sample. For venture, the literature-imputed estimates correspond to the median standard deviation of 46% annualized as opposed to 35-38%
range with fund-specific and peer-imputed parameters.
In Panel C of Table 4, we observe again a similar pattern as in the corresponding panel
for buyout funds: peer-imputed parameters result in better nowcasts but further reducing
variance in F and σn and/or nudging higher βs appears counter productive. We also note
that, while SSM RMSEs are higher for the venture sample and do not shrink as much
relatively to naı̈ve nowcast as they do with buyout funds, overall the improvement rate is
actually slightly higher for venture funds. For example, 74.6% of venture funds have smaller
OOS RMSE from SSM with peer-imputed parameters than from a naı̈ve nowcast for the
respective fund, as opposed to 72.8% of buyout funds.
It it important to note however that a β closer-to-one does not warrant better nowcasting
performance. This is evident from Table A.2 in the Appendix, which reports a similar
analyses for REPE funds. There again peer-imputed estimates result in best nowcasting
performance with average β being indistinguishable from the literature-imputed levels and
further below one for a typical fund.

28

3.4

Discussion

3.4.1

Why do we find lower betas?

Tables 3–4 provide evidence that our estimates of systematic risk level are lower while also
more consistent with cash flows realizations of individual funds. This raises a question of why
other studies found higher β levels for largely same PE funds. One potential explanation
is that funds that have higher risk produce larger cash flows, especially, if higher risk is
associated with higher abnormal returns which appears consistent with differences between
α and β levels in the subsamples with fund-specific estimates and without.
Table 5 tests this hypothesis more formally by regressing fund-level β estimates on fund
characteristics. In specification 1, we regress β on α using fund-specific estimates in Panel
A and peer-imputed in Panel B, while also controlling for fund industry and subtype fixed
effects (discussed below). Both panels reveal a strong positive association between PE funds
excess returns and systematic risk levels. Because β and α are jointly estimated, this regression result is prone to be affected by an omitted variable bias reflecting the joint estimation
error. We note that such a bias would likely be reducing a positive relationship insofar that
an understated β would result in higher α given the on average positive market returns. Nevertheless, in the remaining specifications we use explanatory variables that are independent
from α estimate—namely, fund size, cumulative distributions and the number thereof—while
not seeking to establish a causal relationship.
Our preferred specification is 6, where we include cash flow characteristics as well additionally control for industry and market variance over the life-time of the fund. In both
panels, we see that the fund β increases in fund size and the value of distributions it made.
This explains why we find lower average and median βs. Prior studies have been answering
a different question—what is the β of the panel of fund cash flows (rather than that of an
average or typical fund).25
25

In untabulated analyses, we find that these results do not hold for the idiosyncratic risk level which falls
in fund size and insignificantly relates to the fund’s cumulative distributions.

29

Figure 3 plots industry and fund subtype fixed effects from specification 6 of both panels.
We see that the industry effects are in concordance with the general intuition that utilities,
non-cyclical consumer goods and health care exhibit less systematic risk relatively to the
‘Consumer Discretionary’-goods baseline, in contrast to ‘Energy’, ‘Telecoms’ and ‘Information Technology’. A similar pattern consistent with the economic intuition is observed for
fund subtype fixed effects relatively to ‘buyout’ funds group that has the average beta of just
over one, according to both sets of estimates. Interestingly, we see that late-stage venture
funds have a positive fixed effect as high as early-stage funds for both fund-specific and
peer-imputed estimates, and above that of generalists and expansion capital.
It is also worth noting that prior studies’ inference about β may reflect the marginal
utility to trade of investors in private companies or funds, rather than the risk of the underlying project cash flows. Consistent with this hypothesis, findings of higher level of systematic risk tend to rely on round-to-round valuation change of venture-backed companies
(Korteweg and Sorensen, 2010) and secondary fund trades in buyouts (Boyer et al., 2018).
Additionally, the contracts between portfolio firms and funds as well as between a fund and
its investors likely further attenuate the risk at fund level. In both, the decision-makers (e.g.
entrepreneurs and fund GPs) get an option-like payout which not only reduces the upside
variation in fund cash flows but subsidizes them on the downside state-contingent cash flow
rights (see, e.g., Kaplan and Strömberg, 2003).

3.4.2

Trends in PE fund risk

The notable differences in nowcasting performance between the peer- and average-imputed
estimates, suggest a meaningful variation in PE fund risk profiles. We depict this via a
vintage-year box plot of α, β, and F in Figure 4.
Panel A of the figure plots the results for the buyout sample. We see two clear spikes
in the idiosyncratic risk exposures, during 1990-93 and then during 2002-05, which also
happened to be the best vintages. The levels for the 2007-08 vintages appear moderate by

30

historical standards with excess returns turning slightly negative. As for systematic risk,
the cross-sectional variation appears to dominate the time series trend. Nevertheless, there
appears to be a shift towards consistently above-one median levels post-2000. However, three
quarters of buyout funds have had β estimated at below 1.25 for each vintage since 2005.
Panel B of the figure plots the results for venture sample. Here we note a clear spike in
systematic risk exposures during the 1995–98 vintages, with top-quartile β being in vicinity
of 2.0. We then observe a rapid decline towards sub-one β for more than half of the funds in
2002 vintage and then a rebound towards 1.1–1.3 medians more recently. Nevertheless three
quarters of venture funds have had β estimated at below 1.4 for each vintage since 2005 with
αs starting exceed zero for about half of funds. Interestingly, there is a clear rebound in
the idiosyncratic risk levels taken post-2002 even though the 2007-08 vintage seem to have
scaled back to under 3× the level of public equities.

4

Selected applications

4.1

PE allocations and nowcasts around the GFC

Naturally, the SSM-based nowcasts provide potentially superior basis for asset allocation
decisions, especially after periods of very high or very low returns observed for the funds
of interest and/or the relevant publicly traded assets. Fund investors that assume the as
reported to be unbiased may significantly misjudge their current allocation to PE relatively
to their desired levels.
To illustrate this misvaluation argument and to examine the performance of the SSM
nowcasts around the dramatic regime shifts, we examine the case of great financial crises
of 2008. For this exercise, we restrict our sample to North America buyout and venture
funds that were 5- to 8-years old as of the first half of 2007 and not fully resolved before
2010. Additionally, to reduce the effect of outliers, we require that nowcasted NAVs are
within 1/5× to 5× of the reported ones during 2007. This leaves us with 115 buyout and
31

219 venture funds. To measure nowcast performance, we rely on the OOS RMSE metric
introduced in section 2.3, which we recompute for each fund-quarter between Q4 2006 and
Q4 2009.26
Figure 6 reports the results of this case study, separately for buyout and venture subsamples. In particular, panel A reports the 2007–2009 history of average fund NAV, the average
value of public benchmark corresponding to each fund’s industry, and the average nowcasting error using the naı̈ve approach, which takes the reported NAVs as true, as introduced in
Section 2. Both NAVs and public benchmark values are normalized to be one as of Q4 2006.
The panel shows that the public markets rallied through Q3 2007. During that period, the
growth in NAVs trailed that of the markets, and was actually negative in the buyout sample
as those funds we making significant distributions to LPs (not plotted). As the distributions
to LPs dried-up early in 2008, the NAVs of both buyout and venture funds fell at a lower
rate than the public benchmarks. The differences in changes since Q1 2008 would suggest
a 10-to-15% increase of the PE weight in a portfolio the reminder of which was invested in
those public benchmarks.
Panel A also illustrates an intutive trend that, as funds approach resolution, their reported NAVs gradually become more informative of the future distributions (discounted to
the respective NAV date). The dashed line shows the drop in the naı̈ve nowcast error from
the averages of 45 cents on the dollar to 25 [35] for buyout [venture funds].27
Panel B indicates that the apparent outperformance of PE fund NAVs is due to the
changes in the direction of the appraisal bias thereof. This is evident from the bar plot
of the the ratio of reported NAVs to the corresponding SSM nowcasts. It follows that the
average NAV has exceeded the SSM estimate by as much as 10% for the buyout funds in
our cohort, and by as much as 25% in the venture cohort.
Meanwhile the markered lines in panel B show that SSM nowcasts consistently outperform
26

For SSM-based nowcasts, we do not reestimate the parameters or filtered returns each quarter but use
the same estimates as in Section 3.
27
The 10 percentage point gap that emerged between the two sabsamples is at least partially due to the
2.3-year longer life of the venture subsample.

32

the Naı̈ve ones. This is evident from both ratios – the average SSM error to the average
naı̈ve, and the count of funds with SSM outperforming the naı̈ve – being significantly below
one, even when the naı̈ve nowcasting errors shrink as per panel A.
Figure 6 provides another angle to assess the value of our fund-level nowcasts for portfolio
choice. Because few (if any) investors invest in virtually every PE fund in the market, the
means plotted in panel B might not be fully describe the valuation uncertainty faced by a
typical PE investors. Accordingly, instead of the cross sectional means per panel B, the bars
and the lines now reflect the standard deviations of the appraisal bias and nowcast errors
across funds in a given quarter. It follows that the standard deviation of NAV bias spikes
during the crises while the SSM nowcast error across funds drops.
These results suggest that it is important to account for the fund-specific smoothing
parameters and idiosyncratic return paths preceding the market crush. In other words, the
assumption that appraisal bias is same across funds is not supported by the data.
We argue that the takeaway from this GFC case study may apply to the asset valuation
environment investors face amid the COVID-19 pandemic.

5

Conclusion

This paper develops a new method that provides reliable estimates of PE fund asset values at
high frequency while shedding light on rich temporal and cross section variation in manager
risk and reporting quality characteristics even when only fund-level cash flows and NAVs are
utilized. We show how this framework can be extended to incorporate other types of data,
such as portfolio-level deals information, secondary transactions with fund stakes, etc. These
new insights are of critical importance in light of continued growth of PE and other illiquid
assets in the institutional portfolios and the increasingly high regulatory interest to the risks
arising from these investments. Our results suggest that the risk-return profile of PE based
on the samples from the 1990s are likely not representative of the currently operating funds.

33

Table 1. Fund sample summary statistics
This table reports summary statistics for the sample of buyout (Panel A), and venture funds (Panel B)
incepted between 1983 and 2008. For the fund to be included in our sample, it has to meet three criteria: (i)
have been operating for at least 6 years since inception, (ii) have at least 20 NAV reports, (ii) have at least
two peer funds which meet criteria for the estimation in which SSM parameters are obtained independently
from other funds (see Section 3.1 for details). # of ’Capital Calls’, ’Distributions’, ’NAV reports’ count the
respective data point for each fund during at most 12 years of fund operations (’Fund life’). Data beyond
12th year of fund life are omitted. ’% Unresolved’ is the ratio of fund latest NAV report to the sum thereof
with the cumulative distributions. The last two rows of each panel count the number of quarters with
non-zero distributions or only when those exceed 5% of fund size.

Panel A. Buyout funds
mean
Vintage year
Fund size (USD mil.)
Fund life (years)
IRR(%)
Money Multiple
PME (v. CRSP VW)
# Capital Calls
# Distributions
# NAV reports
% Resolved
# Quarters w/ Dist.> 0
w/ Dist > 5% of Fund

sd

2001.6
6.0
939.0 1798.3
11.2
1.0
11.6
15.7
1.7
0.9
1.2
0.6
31.9
19.9
30.3
22.0
19.7
2.7
83.8
17.7
8.5
4.8
5.7
3.7

skew

Number of funds: 1,437
p5
p10 p25
p50

-1.1
5.2
-1.3
1.0
3.3
1.9
1.1
2.9
-0.8
-1.7
0.4
0.9

1983
20
8.04
-24.2
0.22
0.15
3
3
12
17.8
0
0

1989
49
9.17
-9.43
0.58
0.39
6
7
14
44.2
1
1

1998
172
10.5
3.60
1.20
0.78
17
16
18
77.8
5
3

p75

p90

p95

2004 2006 2008 2008
398.5 874 3671 9165
12.0 12.0 12.0 12.0
9.91 17.9 36.4 64.2
1.57 2.04 3.12 5.26
1.06 1.43 2.18 3.14
28.5
44
68
94
26
38
69
107
20
22
23
24
90.1 96.1 99.6 99.9
8
12
17
20
5
8
12
17

Panel B. Venture funds
sd

skew

Number of funds: 1,142
p5
p10
p25 p50

p75

1999.9 6.9
254.5 323.6
11.4
1.0
12.6
40.1
2.0
2.8
1.2
1.7
23.0
16.1
18.7
13.8
20.4
2.5
71.7
24.8
4.9
3.7
3.7
3.0

-0.9
5.1
-1.9
5.6
6.7
6.4
1.9
1.8
-1.2
-0.9
1.0
1.2

1981
10
8.15
-31.5
0.13
0.10
2
1
12
6.10
0
0

2006 2008 2008
316 743 1530
12.0 12.0 12.0
14.3 63.7 197.9
2.04 5.72 15.3
1.24 3.25 10.1
30
52
81
25
47
64
22
23
24
93
99.3 99.9
7
12
16
5
10
13

mean
Vintage year
Fund size (USD mil.)
Fund life (years)
IRR(%)
Money Multiple
PME (v. CRSP VW)
# Capital Calls
# Distributions
# NAV reports
% Resolved
# Quarters w/ Dist.> 0
w/ Dist > 5% of Fund

34

1985
25
9.27
-16.1
0.31
0.20
4
3
15
20
0
0

1997 2000
74
163
11.1 12.0
-3.07 5.16
0.82 1.34
0.52 0.81
12
19
9
16
19
21
56
78.2
2
4
1
3

p90

p95

Table 2. Summary of fund-specific estimates
This table reports summary statistics parameter estimates and nowcasting performances metrics obtained
with fund-level SSMs for the sample of buyout and venture funds described in Table 1. Panel A reports SSM
parameters that are estimated independently for each fund as described in Section 2.4.1 using at least (most)
four (seven) years. The return autocorrelations and variances in Panel B are computed from the full history
of fund returns estimates. The nowcasting performance metrics in Panel C are as discussed in Section 2.3
utilize at least [most] one [five] remaining years of fund life.

mean

Number of fund-estimates: 1,745
skew
p10
p25
p50

sd

p75

p90

Panel A. Parameter estimates
Main parameters:
α: Excess return (p.a.)
β: Systematic risk
F : Idiosync Volty (×)

0.048
1.19
3.77

0.14
0.41
3.21

2.7
1.1
0.9

-0.127
0.668
0.180

-0.035
0.962
1.364

0.036
1.102
2.591

0.102
1.399
5.495

0.265
1.979
10.00

λ: NAV smoothing bias
σn : NAV report noise

0.88
0.046

0.20 −2.9
0.058 2.4

0.357
0.001

0.869
0.001

0.951
0.031

0.983
0.059

0.990
0.156

δ: Dist intensity trend
σd : Dist intensity noise

0.030
2.56

0.10
0.52

27.2
0.5

0.004
1.792

0.010
2.187

0.019
2.512

0.035
2.875

0.079
3.496

Parameter mapping to Comparable asset:
ψ: log intercept to Fund (p.a.)
0.026
βi : beta on Fund return
0.53
Fc : IdVol vs Fund return (×)
0.79

0.11
0.34
0.42

−0.9
1.1
0.6

-0.148
0.123
0.100

-0.041
0.262
0.546

0.034
0.469
0.812

0.097
0.722
0.998

0.184
1.156
1.488

Panel B. Filtered return properties
Autocorrelations:
Reported NAVs (quarterly)
SSM estimates (quarterly)

0.38
0.042

0.25
0.25

−0.9
0.1

-0.050
-0.369

0.239
-0.133

0.411
0.051

0.559
0.201

0.712
0.472

SSM estimates (weekly)
Naive nowcast (weekly)

0.013
0.51

0.19
0.29

2.0
−0.3

-0.141
0.029

-0.101
0.266

−0.060
0.557

0.052
0.767

0.422
0.895

Variances:
Reported NAVs (quarterly)
SSM estimates (quarterly)

0.048
0.085

0.23
0.37

13.8
27.2

0.003
0.006

0.007
0.015

0.014
0.031

0.027
0.072

0.103
0.263

SSM estimates (weekly)
SSM parameter-based (weekly)

0.0037
0.0067

0.006
0.007

6.2
1.1

<0.001
0.001

0.001
0.001

0.002
0.003

0.004
0.010

0.013
0.020

Panel C. Nowcasted performance assessment
In-Sample RMSE

0.19

0.19

2.3

0.041

0.077

0.128

0.222

0.637

Hybrid RMSE SSM
Hybrid RMSE Naive

0.16
0.54

0.19
0.55

2.5
1.8

0.021
0.061

0.050
0.178

0.097
0.341

0.195
0.657

0.571
2.032

OOS RMSE Naive
OOS RMSE SSM

0.35
0.24

0.34
0.33

2.2
4.3

0.021
0.011

0.117
0.065

0.250
0.146

0.448
0.290

1.025
0.734

35

Table 3. Buyout fund estimates comparison
This table reports summary statistics on fund-level SSM parameter estimates (Panel A), fund quarterly
return estimates (Panel B) and nowcasting performances metrics (Panel C) for buyout funds incepted between
1983 and 2008. Section 2.3 defines the nowcasting performance metrics. Row titles indicate the method that
parameter estimates were obtained with. Sections 2.4.1–2.4.2 describe the key differences between fundspecific and partially imputed parameter estimations. Section 3.3 describes the three different imputation
methods we applied.
Number of fund-level estimates: fund-specific—1,105, partially-imputed—1,391
mean

p25

p50

p75

mean

p25

p50

p75

1.040
1.089
1.303
1.593

1.307
1.290
1.303
1.750

0.945
0.920
0.937
0.967

0.980
0.965
0.963
0.967

Panel A. Selected parameters
α (p.a.)
Fund-specific
Peer-imputed
Average-imputed
Literature-imputed

0.052
0.040
0.036
0.006

−0.017
−0.039
−0.045
−0.080

β

0.053
0.031
0.026
−0.002

0.114
0.105
0.105
0.083

1.098
1.050
1.132
1.551

0.839
0.802
0.803
1.250

Fc
Fund-specific
Peer-imputed
Average-imputed
Literature-imputed

0.838
1.479
1.072
0.989

0.570
0.770
0.710
0.686

λ
0.842
1.007
0.918
0.867

1.030
1.596
1.217
1.119

0.859
0.886
0.880
0.889

0.843
0.828
0.849
0.861

Panel B. Fund return properties
Quarterly return autocorrelation
Naive nowcast
Fund-specific
Peer-imputed
Average-imputed
Literature-imputed

0.362
0.067
0.057
−0.032
−0.059

0.216
−0.100
−0.142
−0.222
−0.247

0.405
0.074
0.026
−0.065
−0.090

0.548
0.234
0.222
0.112
0.075

Quarterly return variance
0.063
0.076
0.058
0.069
0.075

0.007
0.013
0.017
0.029
0.034

0.013
0.027
0.028
0.043
0.049

0.029
0.070
0.049
0.066
0.073

Panel C. Nowcast performance assessment
Hybrid RMSE
Naive nowcast
Fund-specific
Peer-imputed
Average-imputed
Literature-imputed

0.472
0.148
0.185
0.201
0.208

0.174
0.044
0.049
0.060
0.067

OOS RMSE

0.329
0.084
0.099
0.119
0.126

0.597
0.177
0.212
0.229
0.241

0.345
0.222
0.174
0.186
0.201

Hybrid Improvement Rate
Fund-specific
Peer-imputed
Average-imputed
Literature-imputed

0.781
0.785
0.761
0.747

−
−
−
−

−
−
−
−

−
−
−
−

36

0.110
0.054
0.047
0.051
0.053

0.250
0.124
0.105
0.111
0.118

0.463
0.267
0.207
0.213
0.221

OOS Improvement Rate
0.657
0.728
0.714
0.696

−
−
−
−

−
−
−
−

−
−
−
−

Table 4. Venture fund estimates comparison
This table reports summary statistics on fund-level SSM parameter estimates (Panel A), fund quarterly
return estimates (Panel B) and nowcasting performances metrics (Panel C) for venture funds incepted
between 1983 and 2008. Section 2.3 defines the nowcasting performance metrics. Row titles indicate the
method that parameter estimates were obtained with. Sections 2.4.1–2.4.2 describe the key differences
between fund-specific and partially imputed parameter estimations. Section 3.3 describes the three different
imputation methods we applied.
Number of fund-level estimates: fund-specific—640, partially-imputed—1,052
mean

p25

p50

p75

mean

p25

p50

p75

1.102
1.178
1.297
1.500

1.548
1.402
1.629
2.100

0.960
0.934
0.965
0.966

0.985
0.969
0.980
0.981

Panel A. Key parameter estimates
α
Fund-specific
Peer-imputed
Average-imputed
Literature-imputed

0.048
0.001
−0.007
−0.036

−0.062
−0.114
−0.122
−0.155

β

0.005
−0.027
−0.039
−0.064

0.080
0.058
0.047
0.023

1.379
1.196
1.325
1.720

1.102
0.802
1.029
1.500

Fc
Fund-specific
Peer-imputed
Average-imputed
Literature-imputed

0.717
0.900
0.755
0.722

0.495
0.577
0.536
0.544

λ
0.753
0.829
0.726
0.704

0.955
1.073
0.916
0.864

0.904
0.909
0.908
0.917

0.901
0.862
0.856
0.906

Panel B. Fund return properties
Quarterly return autocorrelation
Naive nowcast
Fund-specific
Peer-imputed
Average-imputed
Literature-imputed

0.380
0.009
0.037
−0.015
−0.039

0.257
−0.165
−0.125
−0.172
−0.194

0.414
0.019
0.014
−0.037
−0.060

0.560
0.172
0.182
0.109
0.083

Quarterly return variance
0.060
0.100
0.074
0.081
0.091

0.007
0.019
0.020
0.031
0.038

0.013
0.036
0.031
0.045
0.052

0.029
0.076
0.050
0.064
0.075

Panel C. Nowcast performance assessment
Hybrid RMSE
Naive nowcast
Fund-specific
Peer-imputed
Average-imputed
Literature-imputed

0.551
0.180
0.151
0.168
0.183

0.198
0.061
0.059
0.075
0.082

OOS RMSE

0.358
0.112
0.099
0.124
0.137

0.636
0.208
0.176
0.199
0.221

0.386
0.237
0.188
0.218
0.233

Hybrid Improvement Rate
Fund-specific
Peer-imputed
Average-imputed
Literature-imputed

0.811
0.864
0.831
0.809

−
−
−
−

−
−
−
−

−
−
−
−

37

0.156
0.075
0.060
0.072
0.081

0.301
0.162
0.136
0.158
0.173

0.509
0.298
0.241
0.286
0.297

OOS Improvement Rate
0.633
0.746
0.721
0.697

−
−
−
−

−
−
−
−

−
−
−
−

Table 5. Fund characteristics and Systematic risk exposure
This table regresses PE fund-level β estimates on its α-estimates as well as selected fund characteristics.
Panel A uses the sample of fund-specific estimates, while Panel B uses peer-imputed estimates. The sample
includes PE funds described in Table 1 as well as REPE funds per Table A.2. ***/**/* denotes significance
at 1/5/10% confidence level, t-statistics robust to error clustering at vintage level are reported in parentheses.

Panel A. Fund-specific estimates
(1)
α estimate

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

0.252***
(3.84)

log(Fund Size)

0.0156**
(2.04)

P
log( Distributions/Size)

0.0205
(1.11)

log(# of Distributions)
Industry variance
Market variance
Industry FE
Fund type FE

Yes
Yes

Yes
Yes

Yes
Yes

Observations
R2

1,953
0.252

1,953
0.247

1,953
0.246

0.0364*** 0.0353***
(4.30)
(4.14)
0.0712*** 0.0710***
(3.39)
(3.38)
−0.0457*** −0.0977*** −0.0955***
(−2.75)
(−4.96)
(−4.79)
−0.0087
(−1.18)
−0.0167
(−0.75)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
1,953
0.249

1,953
0.258

1,953
0.259

(5)

(6)

Panel B. Peer-imputed estimates
(1)
α estimate

(2)

(3)

(4)

0.122***
(3.50)

log(Fund Size)

0.0255***
(5.12)

P
log( Distributions/Size)

0.0117
(1.44)

log(# of Distributions)

0.00280
(0.34)

Industry variance
Market variance
Industry FE
Fund type FE

Yes
Yes

Yes
Yes

Yes
Yes

Yes
Yes

Observations
R2

2,758
0.155

2,758
0.156

2,758
0.150

2,758
0.149

38

0.0330*** 0.0317***
(5.96)
(5.70)
0.0332*** 0.0331***
(3.22)
(3.21)
−0.0340*** −0.0318***
(−3.06)
(−2.84)
−0.0120**
(−2.57)
−0.0319*
(−1.87)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
2,758
0.161

2,758
0.164

Figure 1. Predictability of nowcasting performance
This figure compares the logs of in-sample nowcasting error (x-axis) with those out-of-sample (y-axis) as
defined in Section 2.3 using fund-specific estimates summarized in Table 2. A positive slope indicates that
that SSM nowcasting precision is more predictable. Table 1 describes the sample.

-10

Pseudo Out-of-Sample logMSE
-5
0

5

Panel A: Hybrid metric

-10

-5

In-Sample logMSE

0

5

-20

-15

Out-of-Sample logSE
-10
-5

0

5

Panel B: Out-of-Sample metric

-10

-5

In-Sample logMSE

39

0

5

Figure 2. Nowcasting performance assessment
This figure compares nowcasting errors from SSM (y-axis) using fund-specific estimates summarized in
Table 2 with those from a naı̈ve method based on as=reported NAVs and matched benchmark returns. The
metrics are defined in Section 2.3 and are based on the idea that the NPV of fund cash flows has to be zero
if true returns are used to discount them.

-10

SSM estimates
-5
0

5

Panel A: Hybrid metric

-10

-5
0
as reported NAVs + matched Benchmark

5

-20

-15

SSM estimates
-10
-5

0

5

Panel B: Out-of-Sample metric

-20

-15

-10
-5
0
as reported NAVs + matched Benchmark

40

5

Figure 3. Fund characteristics and Systematic risk exposure
This figure plots fixed effect estimates of regression of fund-level β estimates on fund characteristics corresponding to specification 6 of Table 5. The sample includes PE funds described in Table 1 as well as REPE
funds per Table A.2. ***/**/* denotes significance at 1/5/10% confidence level with inference robust to
clustering at vintage level. The baseline effects are, respectively, ‘Consumer discretionary’ and ‘Buyout’.

Panel A: Industry fixed effects
Fund-specific

Peer-imputed

.1

***
**

*

0

**

*

-.1

*

-.2

**

-.3

***

Utilities

Telecom

Materials

Industrials

IT

HealthCare

Financials

ConsumStapl

Energy

*

Panel B: Fund type fixed effects

.4

Fund-specific

Peer-imputed
***

***
***

.2

***
***

***
***

0

***

***

-.2

**

41

Unknown

Real Estate

Natural Resources

Late Stage

Generalist

Expansion Capital

Early Stage

***

Figure 4. Trends in fund risk and returns
This figure plots the time series and cross-sectional variation of selected fund-level parameters obtained
partially-imputed from peers with fund-specific estimates as described in Sections 2.4.2 and 3.3. The “boxes”
reflect the inter-quartile range and the median of the respective parameter over buyout (Panel A) or venture
(Panel B) funds incepted in the year indicated on the x-axis. Outlier values are not depicted.

Panel A: Buyout funds

-.2

0

.2

.4

.6

α: Excess return

0

.5

1

1.5

2

β: Market risk

42

2008

2007

2006

2005

2004

2003

2002

2001

2000

1999

1998

1997

1996

1995

1994

1993

1992

1990

1989

1988

1987

1986

0

2

4

6

8

10

F: Idiosync. volatility scale

Figure 5. Trends in fund risk and returns—(Continued )

Panel B: Venture funds

-.5

0

.5

1

1.5

α: Excess return

.5

1

1.5

2

β: Market risk

43

2008

2007

2006

2005

2004

2003

2002

2001

2000

1999

1998

1997

1996

1995

1994

1993

1992

1990

1989

1988

1987

1986

1

2

3

4

5

F: Idiosync. volatility scale

Figure 6. NAV bias and Nowcasting around the GFC
This figure illustrates the application of SSM for asset allocation decisions concerning PE around dramatic
shifts in public market valuations such as the financial crisis of 2008. The subsample for this exercise includes
115 buyout funds (left-hand charts) and 219 venture funds (right-hand charts). All funds satisfy the following
criteria: (i) were between 5 and 8 years old as of the beginning of 2007, (ii) were not fully resolved before the
beginning of 2010, and (iii) had the ratio of the reported NAVs to SSM-estimated values between 0.20 and
5.0 during 2007. Panel A plots the average as-reported NAVs and industry benchmark cumulative returns,
both normalized by the level Q4 2006, against the mean nowcasting error on the out-of-sample basis using
the naı̈ve approach (section 2.3). Panel B shows the time series estimates of the average appraisal bias inherit
in the reported NAVs and the extent of SSM-based nowcast improvement relatively to the naı̈ve approach.
Panel C shows the cross sectional variation in the NAV bias estimates and the SSM-based nowcast error
during the period between Q4 2006 and Q4 2009. Section 4.1 provides details.

Panel A: Reported NAVs and naı̈ve nowcasts
Venture
.6
.5
.4

1

.2

.3

.8
.6

2007q1

2007q3

2008q1

2008q3

2009q1

2009q3

2007q1

As Reported NAVs -- left axis
Naive Nowcast Error -- right axis, per $1 of NAV

2007q3

2008q1

2008q3

2009q1

2009q3

2009q1

2009q3

Public Benchmark Index -- left axis

Panel B: SSM-based inference – means across funds
Venture

.2

-.1

.4

0

.6

.1

.8

.2

1

Buyout

2007q1

2007q3

2008q1

2008q3

2009q1

2009q3

2007q1

(Reported NAV)/(SSM-based NAV)-1 -- left axis
Fraction of funds with SSM Nowcast better than Naive -- right axis

2007q3

2008q1

2008q3

(SSM Nowcast SE)/(Naive Nowcast SE) -- right axis

Panel C: SSM-based inference – standard deviations across funds
Venture

.3

.4

.2

.5

.3

.6

.7

.4

Buyout

.1

per $1 of 4q06 NAV

1.2

Buyout

2007q1

2007q3

2008q1

2008q3

2009q1

2009q3

2007q1

(Reported NAV)/(SSM-based NAV) -- left axis

2007q3

2008q1

2008q3

2009q1

SSM Nowcast Error -- per $1 of NAV, right axis

44

2009q3

References
Albuquerque, R. A., Cassel, J., Phalippou, L., Schroth, E. J., 2018. Liquidity provision in the
secondary market for private equity fund stakes. Oxford University Working Paper .
Andreou, E., Ghysels, E., Kourtellos, A., 2013. Should macroeconomic forecasters use daily financial
data and how? Journal of Business and Economic Statistics 31, 240–251.
Ang, A., 2014. Asset management: A systematic approach to factor investing. Oxford University
Press.
Ang, A., Chen, B., Goetzmann, W. N., Phalippou, L., 2018. Estimating private equity returns from
limited partner cash flows. Journal of Finance 73, 1751–1783.
Ang, A., Papanikolaou, D., Westerfield, M. M., 2014. Portfolio choice with illiquid assets. Management Science 60, 2737–2761.
Bańbura, M., Giannone, D., Modugno, M., Reichlin, L., 2013. Now-casting and the real-time data
flow. In: Elliott, G., Timmermann, A. (eds.), Handbook of Economic Forecasting, Volume 2 Part
A, Elsevier, pp. 195–233.
Boyer, B., Nadauld, T. D., Vorkink, K. P., Weisbach, M. S., 2018. Private equity indices based on
secondary market transactions. National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper .
Brito, N. O., 1977. Marketability restrictions and the valuation of capital assets under uncertainty.
Journal of Finance 32, 1109–1123.
Brown, G. W., Gredil, O. R., Kaplan, S. N., 2019. Do private equity funds manipulate reported
returns? Journal of Financial Economics 132, 267–297.
Brown, G. W., Harris, R. S., Jenkinson, T., Kaplan, S. N., Robinson, D., 2015. What do different
commercial data sets tell us about private equity performance? University of North Carolina
Working Paper .
Buchner, A., Stucke, R., 2014. The systematic risk of private equity. Passau University Working
Paper .
Cochrane, J. H., 2005. The risk and return of venture capital. Journal of Financial Economics 75,
3–52.
De Jong, P., 1988. The likelihood for a state space model. Biometrika 75, 165–169.
Dempster, A. P., Laird, N. M., Rubin, D. B., 1977. Maximum likelihood from incomplete data via
the em algorithm. Journal of the Royal Statistical Society: Series B (Methodological) 39, 1–22.
Driessen, J., Lin, T.-C., Phalippou, L., 2012. A new method to estimate risk and return of nontraded
assets from cash flows: the case of private equity funds. Journal of Financial and Quantitative
Analysis 47, 511–535.
Durbin, J., Koopman, S. J., 2000. Time series analysis of non-gaussian observations based on state
space models from both classical and bayesian perspectives. Journal of the Royal Statistical
Society: Series B (Statistical Methodology) 62, 3–56.

45

Durbin, J., Koopman, S. J., 2012. Time series analysis by state space methods, vol. 38. Oxford
University Press.
Ewens, M., Jones, C. M., Rhodes-Kropf, M., 2013. The price of diversifiable risk in venture capital
and private equity. Review of Financial Studies 26, 1854–1889.
Franzoni, F., Nowak, E., Phalippou, L., 2012. Private equity performance and liquidity risk. Journal
of Finance 67, 2341–2373.
Gârleanu, N., 2009. Portfolio choice and pricing in illiquid markets. Journal of Economic Theory
144, 532–564.
Ghysels, E., Horan, C., Moench, E., 2017. Forecasting through the rearview mirror: Data revisions
and bond return predictability. Review of Financial Studies 31, 678–714.
Ghysels, E., Qian, H., 2019. Estimating MIDAS regressions via OLS with polynomial parameter
profiling. Econometrics and Statistics 9, 1–16.
Ghysels, E., Santa-Clara, P., Valkanov, R., 2006. Predicting volatility: getting the most out of
return data sampled at different frequencies. Journal of Econometrics 131, 59–95.
Giannone, D., Reichlin, L., Small, D., 2008. Nowcasting: The real-time informational content of
macroeconomic data. Journal of Monetary Economics 55, 665–676.
Goetzmann, William N. and, E. G., Phalippou, L., 2019. How alternative are private markets?
Yale University Working Paper .
Goetzmann, W. N., Gourier, E., Phalippou, L., 2018. How Alternative Are Alternative Investments?
The Case of Private Equity Funds. Yale School of Management Working Paper .
Gornall, W., Strebulaev, I. A., 2017. Squaring venture capital valuations with reality. Journal of
Financial Economics, forthcoming .
Gourieroux, C., Monfort, A., Trognon, A., 1984. Pseudo maximum likelihood methods: Theory.
Econometrica pp. 681–700.
Gredil, O., 2018. Do private equity managers have superior information on public markets? Available at SSRN 2802640 .
Gredil, O., Griffiths, B. E., Stucke, R., 2014. Benchmarking private equity: The direct alpha
method. Tulane University Working Paper .
Gupta, A., Van Nieuwerburgh, S., 2019. Valuing private equity investments strip by strip. New
York University Working Paper .
Kalman, R. E., 1960. A new approach to linear filtering and prediction problems. Journal of Basic
Engineering 82, 35–45.
Kaplan, S. N., Schoar, A., 2005. Private Equity Performance: Returns, Persistence, and Capital
Flows. Journal of Finance 60, 1791–1823.
Kaplan, S. N., Strömberg, P., 2003. Financial contracting theory meets the real world: An empirical
analysis of venture capital contracts. The review of economic studies 70, 281–315.

46

Kohn, R., Ansley, C. F., 1989. A fast algorithm for signal extraction, influence and cross-validation
in state space models. Biometrika 76, 65–79.
Korteweg, A., Nagel, S., 2016. Risk-Adjusting the Returns to Venture Capital. Journal of Finance
71, 1437–1470.
Korteweg, A., Nagel, S., 2017. Risk-Adjusted Returns of Private Equity Funds: A New Approach.
University of South California Working Paper .
Korteweg, A., Sorensen, M., 2010. Risk and return characteristics of venture capital-backed entrepreneurial companies. Review of Financial Studies 23, 3738–3772.
Kuzin, V., Marcellino, M. G., Schumacher, C., 2013. Pooling versus model selection for nowcasting GDP with many predictors: Empirical evidence for six industrialized countries. Journal of
Applied Econometrics 28, 392–411.
Le Cessie, S., Van Houwelingen, J. C., 1992. Ridge estimators in logistic regression. Journal of the
Royal Statistical Society: Series C (Applied Statistics) 41, 191–201.
Ljungqvist, A., Richardson, M., 2003. The cash flow, return and risk characteristics of private
equity. National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper .
Longstaff, F. A., 2001. Optimal portfolio choice and the valuation of illiquid securities. Review of
Financial Studies 14, 407–431.
Miranda, M. J., Fackler, P. L., 2004. Applied Computational Economics and Finance. MIT press.
Nadauld, T. D., Sensoy, B. A., Vorkink, K., Weisbach, M. S., 2016. The liquidity cost of private
equity investments: Evidence from secondary market transactions. National Bureau of Economic
Research Working Paper .
Nunes, L. C., 2005. Nowcasting quarterly GDP growth in a monthly coincident indicator model.
Journal of Forecasting 24, 575–592.
Schick, I. C., Mitter, S. K., 1994. Robust recursive estimation in the presence of heavy-tailed
observation noise. The Annals of Statistics pp. 1045–1080.
Stafford, E., 2017. Replicating private equity with value investing, homemade leverage, and holdto-maturity accounting. Harvard University Working Paper .
Woodward, S. E., Hall, R. E., 2004. Benchmarking the returns to venture. National Bureau of
Economic Research Working paper .

47

Appendix
A.1

Review of State Space Models

Following a slightly modified notation from Durbin and Koopman (2012), the general linear Gaussian SSM can be written as
yt − Γ̃t xt = Z̃t st + t , ,

t ∼ N(0, H̃t ),

st+1 = G̃t st + Ṽt ηt , ,

ηt ∼ N(0, Q̃t ),

t = 1, ..., T,

(A.1)

where yt is a p-by-1 vector of data observable at period t with some (or all) entries possibly being
missing, xt —a n-by-1 vector of observable regressors that explain the variation in yt , st —a m-by-1
vector of unobserved state that explains the residual variation in the data (i.e., yt − Γ̃t xt ) up to
mutually and temporarily uncorrelated vectors of normally distributed shocks t and ηt . The first
equation in (A.1) is referred to as observation or measurement while the second equation, which
describes the evolution of the latent state, is referred to as state or transition equation. The initial
state value s0 is either known or drawn from a normal distribution as well while being independent
from t and ηt .
The matrices (Γ̃t , Z̃t ,G̃t , Ṽt ) and (H̃t ,Q̃t ) can all be time-varying but deterministic functions of
observed data and/or some parameters θ. Moreover, G̃t−1 and Z̃t can depend on y1 , ..., yt−1 . It is
intuitive to think about Z̃t and H̃t as measuring sensitivity of the observed data to, respectively,
the state level and to the noise normalized to unit variance.
The important advantage of the SSM approach to a problem is that, given θ, the system (A.1)
enables extracting the expected value estimates of the latent state series st . The most famous
application of this method for Gaussian SSMs is the Kalman filter (Kalman, 1960) in which the
Projection theorem leads to the following standard results derived recursively from t = 1 to t = T :

h
i

ilter
(A.2)
= G̃t sft ilter + K̃t ytresid − Z̃t sft ilter = E st Yt
sft+1


F̃t = Z̃t P̃t Z̃t0 + H̃t = var ytresid − Z̃t sft ilter Yt−1


P̃t|t = P̃t − P̃t Z̃t0 F̃t−1 Z̃t P̃t = var sft ilter Yt
P̃t+1 = G̃t P̃t|t G̃0t + Ṽt Q̃t Ṽt0
where K̃t = G̃t P̃t Z̃t0 F̃t−1 is the Kalman Gain, and ytresid := yt − Γ̃t xt while Yt denotes the set of
the past observations, (y1resid 0 , . . . , ytresid 0 )0 . The equations in (A.2) are also called the Forward
recursion as they estimate of state st increments forward each period as new information becomes
available. However, depending on the problem under consideration, it may be appropriate to
condition on the observations from future periods τ, t < τ < T , as well to form the estimate of the
state value as of t. This is known respectively as Kalman smoother and backward recursion. It can
be defined as an adjustment to the estimates from Forward recursion:
h
i
f ilter
ssmooth
=
s
+
P̃
b
=
E
s
Y
,
(A.3)
t
t−1
t
T
t
t

 
0

P
where bt−1 = Z̃t0 F̃t−1 yτresid − Z̃τ sfτ ilter + G̃t − K̃t Z̃t bt and: P̃t bt−1 = Tτ=t cov sft ilter , yτresid −



Z̃τ sfτ ilter F̃τ−1 yτresid − Z̃τ sfτ ilter since ηt and t are mutually and temporarily independent.
A final word about estimation, which uses the maximum likelihood principle. Suppose we collect
all the parameters governing the matrices Γ̃t , Z̃t , G̃t , Ṽt , H̃t , Q̃t , G̃t−1 , Z̃t , Z̃t , and H̃t , is denoted θ
∈ Θ. We will denote the Gaussian likelihood given the data and parameter vector by L((yt , xt ), t =
1, . . . , T ; θ) (see again Durbin and Koopman (2012) for details of the likelihood fn specification).

Appendix - 1

A.2

SSM Representation of PE Fund - Details

We proceed with casting the equations (1) through (7) as a SSM per equation (A.1):
yt = [dt−1 navt−2 rc,t ]0 ,
Γ̃t = I3×3 ,





rt
δ(·)t
0 1 0 log 1−δ(·)t

r
,
Z̃t =  0 0 1
st = r̄0:t−1  ,
0
0:t−2
βc 0 0
ψ
1


0
0
0
αβ(·)t+1
1
0
0 
1 

,
G̃t = 
0
1 − λ(·)t−1
λ(·)t−1
0 
0
0
0
1

xt = [m̂t−1 m̂t−2 0]0 ,


σd 0
0
0 ,
H̃t =  0 σn
p
0 0 Fc ĥt
 
F
q
0
Ṽt =  0  , Q̃t = ĥt+1 ,

(A.4)
(A.5)

(A.6)

0

where dt is set to missing values whenever Dt = 0 (i.e., all but 20-30 weeks), navt is set to missing
values whenever the NAV report from GPs is not available (i.e., normally 12 weeks out of 13), and


αβ(·)t := log α + β(Rmt − 1) + 1 .
(A.7)
Let us first discuss the state vector st appearing in equation (A.5). The first entry of the state
vector is defined as rt = αβ(·)t + ηt , corresponding to the log of equation (1). The last element of
the state vector st is a constant, while the other two simply accumulate the realizations of rt since
the fund inception at t = 0 until t − 1 or t − 2, respectively denoted r0:t−1 and r̄0:t−2 , and then
produce the exponentially moving average thereof so that they could be related to the observed fund
distributions and NAV reports respectively. Note that this introduces nonstationarity into the state
space models, since the cumulative sums are trending series. This is a topic worth discussing here.
As highlighted by De Jong (1988) and Kohn and Ansley (1989), among others, while state space
models can be applied to nonstationary process, provided that the initialization of the Kalman filter
is handled properly. It is worth highlighting that we do not face this problem because the start
values for r0:t−1 and r̄0:t−2 are in both cases r0 , a stationary series with well defined unconditional
mean and variance. This implies that the initialization of the Kalman filter is standard.
Next we discuss the vector of observables, denoted yt appearing in equation (A.4). The only entry
without missing values for any weeks is the comparable asset return, rct , which ideally should be
a portfolio of the publicly traded assets matched to the fund holdings as of the beginning of week
t. The weekly observed process rct relates directly to that key state variable, i.e. the fund latent
return series, rt , through the loading βc with a heteroskedastic unobserved error, ψ + ηt .
The other two elements of yt , namely dt−1 and navt−2 , reflect the up-to-period t history of fund
cash flows and, therefore, cannot be mapped to the fund since inception returns directly. Instead,
they are converted to returns via the mapping function mt which is implicitly defined by equations (4) and (6). These mapping functions are step-functions that increment whenever the fund
makes distributions or capital call (as follows from equation (3), note that it is undefined for the
last period since VT is zero - in this case, mT −1 should be used):


mt − mt−1 = log (Vt + Dt − Ct )/Vt .
(A.8)
However, since the true fund asset values are unobserved, the vector of regressors xt contains the
correspondent lags of the best feasible estimates of mt that are filtered from an auxiliary SSM
parametrized with the same θ as the PE fund SSM described in Section 2.4.
The other latent process featuring in both H̃t and Q̃t is the stochastic variance factor ht , which
scales distributions of idiosyncratic return shocks: ηt and ηct . We obtain a proxy of it from a weekly
frequency GARCH(1,1)-filter of comparable asset returns Rct orthogonalized with respect to the
risk-factor returns Rmt . We estimate the GARCH models separately and ignore the estimation
uncertainty caused by the plug-in method we use for volatility in the model.

Appendix - 2

A.2.1

NAV smoothing and noise

Equations (5), (6) and (8) assume that the NAV appraisal process is governed by a parametric
function λ(·)t and a mean-zero noise nt parametrized by time-invariant σn . It is important to
note that smoothing pertains to both systematic and idiosyncratic component of fund returns and
accounts for the path of returns between the quarterly report dates as t indexes weeks. Following
equation 8, λ ∈ (0.01, 0.99) is the structural parameter to be estimated while wt ∈ [0, 1] is the
observed values reflecting the fraction of the fund assets that the cash flow in period t comprises.
Below we provide some examples.
Consider a period when distribution Dt fully resolves the fund so that residual NAV is known to
ˆ t + Dt ) = 1. Consequently, from equations (5) and (8), it
be zero. For this case, w̃t = Dt /(N AV
follows that the “smoothed” return to-date equals the true one regardless of λ:


r̄0:t = 1 − λ(1 − w̃t ) r0:t + λ(1 − w̃t )r̄0:t−1


= 1 − λ · 0 r0:t + λ · 0 · r̄0:t−1
Suppose that wt = 0.5 instead, which would be the case if Ct doubles the fund capital invested
ˆ t ). If the fund GPs put only half of the weight on
or Dt resolves the fund by half (i.e., Dt = N AV
past performance (i.e. λ = 0.5), then the smoothed return to-date would equal:


r̄0:t = 1 − 0.5(1 − 0.5) r0:t + 0.5(1 − 0.5)r̄0:t−1
= 0.75 · r0:t + 0.25 · r̄0:t−1
as opposed to 0.5 · r0:t + 0.5 · r̄0:t−1 for a period without any cash flows and 0.65 · r0:t + 0.35 · r̄0:t−1
had the GPs been smoothing at the λ = 0.9 rate (given wt = 0.5). Given λ = 0.9 and conditional
on absent cash flows during the quarter (i.e., 13 weeks), the quarter-ago valuations would be
contributing 25.4% (= 0.913 ) to the current fund NAV reports.
Equation (8) therefore models the fund asset appraisal process to reflect both, the observed
return paths (for rmt and rct ) and the unobserved idiosyncratic fund returns, ηt , to be are most
consistent with (i) the realized cash flow pattern and (ii) the history of NAV reports. All else equal,
funds that made substantial distributions recently would be assumed to have less “stale” NAVs.
Meanwhile, the weight of returns occurring before period τ, 0 < τ < t in N AVt is limited by the
fraction of fund capital invested before period τ . While under equation (8) the influence of the past
valuations decays at an exponential rate, it is also straightforward to incorporate “longer memory
events” in our framework by temporarily shifting λ(·)t up post specific events, such as highly related
comparable M&A transaction or IPOs, or by expanding the state-space vector outright.
The Gaussian NAV residual noise parametrized by σn is orthogonal to the observed returns and the
distribution process. While the temporal independence assumption appears implausible for actual
PE funds, we argue that the sparseness in the NAV observation series (i.e., once every 13 weeks
at best) and the irregularity of fund cash flows (and, hence, wt values) mitigate the consequences
of possibly non-zero temporal correlation structure in the residuals for the identification of the
fund model parameters. The entry corresponding to the NAV observations in matrix yt is simply
missing for most observations and almost never overlaps with a non-missing value for dt . To better
illustrate this, we interpolate nt between the values drawn for the adjacent quarterly NAV reports
ˆ t in a simulation exercise reported in Section A.4.
to obtain the between quarter estimate of N AV
In addition, we investigate the effect of λ(·)t being misspecified in the estimations relatively to
the data generating process.28 One can also consider making σn time-varying to reflect the stage
of current fund holdings and differences in GP reporting incentives (e.g., see Brown et al., 2019).
The latter can be also modeled as a conditional mean of the distribution of nt . Similarly, it is
straightforward to incorporate data about carry rule to further reduce noise in the estimation.
28
If the econometrician also observes dates and amounts with regards to the individual investments in the fund portfolio,
λ(·)t can be further refined to reflect the return histories during the remaining investments only. Therefore, the ’First-In-FirstOut’-assumption that expression (8) implements is no longer needed.

Appendix - 3

A.2.2

Cash flow process

According to equations (7) and (9), the fund distribution process is governed by the parametric
function δ(·)t and a mean-zero noise dt parametrized by time-invariant σd . By construction, they
are capturing the variation in the fund distributions that cannot be explained the asset return path,
on the one hand, and the periodically observed NAV series, on the other hand. Also note that fund
capital calls do not relate to either δ(·)t or dt but only affect the asset-to-value mapping function,
mt , discussed later in this section.
While equation (9) certainly misspecifies δ(·)t relatively to the true conditional expectation (and,
therefore inducing potentially heavy temporal dependencies in the residuals), we argue that irregularity in distribution occurrence mitigates the violations of the SSM identifying assumptions
discussed in the beginning of this section. As with NAV smoothing process, we scrutinize this
conjecture in our simulations discussed below.
Another insightful extension to the baseline setup in expressions (1–7) would be utilization of
prices (or quotes) from the secondary market transaction with the fund stakes (e.g., see Nadauld et al.,
2016). As are the fund distributions (in fact, they are equivalent from the LPs perspective), these
prices would map to the fund unsmoothed returns, but one-to-one:
log(SecondaryPricet ) + mt = r0:t + pt

,

(A.9)

whereby pt , the price distortion effects, can be either assumed to be zero, or modeled accordingly
to incorporate time-varying demand and supply variation in these still nascent markets (e.g., see
Albuquerque et al., 2018). Similarly, one can incorporate venture deals round valuation data—if
the fraction of reported fund-level NAVs that the deal corresponds to is known.29

A.3

Estimation details

Rct -interpolated NAVs. For any q − < t ≤ q where q and q − are last weeks of two adjacent
quarters ’Rct -interpolated NAVs’ are defined as follows:
Y
Y
X

−
ip
Rcp
(A.10)
Rcτ +
(Cτ − Dτ )e(t−τ )ψq
Ṽt = N AVt=q− e(t−q )ψq
q − <τ ≤t

q − <τ ≤t

τ <p≤t

where ψq is the quarter-specific drift that makes eq. (A.10) hold if Ṽt

ip

is replaced with N AVt=q .

α-range center for profiling. For center of the α-range, we compute IRRs from the discounted
cash flows as do Gredil, Griffiths, and Stucke (2014):
αp0 = arg min
α

T
X
n=0

(Cn − Dn )

Y

proj{Rct |Rmt } · (1 + α)−n



(A.11)

n<t≤T

and approximate fund duration with a weighted average life when IRR solutions are ambiguous. In
work contemporaneous to ours, Korteweg and Nagel (2017) show that using average beta estimates
improves inference about fund-level abnormal performance under the Generalized PME framework
in Korteweg and Nagel (2016) even if fund βs are heterogeneous. Therefore, to obtain the center of
the α-grid, we use the projection of fund-matched Rct on Rmt for the discount factor construction.
Penalty function For each combination of α and β on the profile grid (i.e., grid cell ij), we obtain
the maximum likelihood estimates of ϑpout
and standardize the Loglikelihood scores by subtracting
ij
the grid-wide min and dividing by the grid-wide standard deviation to obtain sLL(αi , βj ) ≡ sLLij .
From each sLLij , we then subtract a penalty function sP M Eerrij which is the grid-wide stan29

Provided that the contractual terms are comparable or adjusted accordingly (see Gornall and Strebulaev, 2017).

Appendix - 4

dardized P M Eerrij defined as:
P M Eerrij = P M Eij − 1


PT −1
QT
D
1
+
α
+
β
(R
−
1)
+ V̂T + DT
t
i
j
mt
t=0
τ =t+1


P M Eij = P
Q
T −1
T
C
1
+
α
+
β
(R
−
1)
+ CT
t
i
j
mt
t=0
τ =t+1

(A.12)
(A.13)

to obtain pLLij , where VˆT = N AVT + ˆ
biasT and ˆ
biast is the expected appraisal bias at t defined
in equation A.14. Picking the supremum value of pLLij on the grid identifies the corresponding (αp , βp )-pair which we use as fixed data in the second step in which we estimate remaining
parameters, ϑ ∈ θ, as well as mapping-to-value functions and weekly fund returns.
Mapping-to-Parameter iterations. Because our latent state is fund returns and future fund
distributions inherently related to today’s returns, we argue that the backward recursion method is
the most natural choice in our context (i.e. nowcasting). We therefore drop the superscript smooth
and instead superscript it the per period and cumulative returns estimates with the set of SSM
θ , r̄ θ . It follows from equations (4) and (6)
parameters that they were derived upon, e.g. rθt , r0:t
0:t
that the expected appraisal bias and the the unbiased net asset values (i.e. Vt ) for any week t are:
θ
θ
bias(θ)t :=r0:t
− r̄0:t

(A.14)

θ
Vt (m̂t ; θ)t =exp{r0:t
− m̂t }

(A.15)

Meanwhile, for weeks t when NAV reports are observed (i.e., t ∈ |teq |), the debiased NAV values
have to satisfy:
Vt (N AVt ; θ)t = N AVt e−bias(θ)t

t ∈ |teq |

(A.16)

which we use in combination with expression A.8 to obtain m̂t series. However, this makes the
mapping mt a function of parameters θ and equation (A.15) a fixed point. Furthermore, m̂t enter
the observation vector xt and, therefore, potentially affects the parameter values under which the
SSM logLikelihood is maximized. Therefore, starting with the m̂t implied by the Rct -interpolated
NAVs (≡ mt |(rc1 , . . . , rcT )), and the corresponding ϑ estimates, we set a loop over i:
ax
m(i)t=1,...,T = m(ϑargM
)
i−1
ax
ϑargM
= arg max LLp (ϑ; m(i)t=1,...,T )
i

(A.17)

ϑ

ax
ax
in which m(i)t and ϑargM
are re-estimated sequentially until the average change in ϑargM
i
i
ax
from ϑargM
is smaller than 5% on average across all ϑ elements, whereby LLp denotes the SSM
i−1
likelihood function conditional on θ ∈
/ ϑ being fixed at values determined in the first step.

A.4

Monte Carlo experiment

In this section, we demonstrate our estimation methodology and its nowcasting performance using
simulated data at weekly frequency. We begin with a single-fund case study and then present
evidence aggregated over a random sample of such funds.

A.4.1

Single-fund case study

This particular fund operated for 626 weeks. It made 18 capital calls over the first 215 weeks for
the total of $5.25mln (including $1mln at inception, i.e. week 0) and 25 distributions of various
amounts for a total of $17.71mln at irregular intervals, starting on 110th week.

Appendix - 5

Panel A of Figure A.1 plots these data over fund life-weeks, along with the “True Asset Values”
(i.e. Vt in equation 3)—unobservable with real fund data—as well as the quarterly NAV reports
that reflect appraisal smoothing as in equation (8) at λ of 0.90 and the reporting noise volatility,
σn , of 5.0%. We can see that this process generates both upward and downward biases in reported
NAVs (relatively to Vt ), depending on the recent path in fund returns, as plotted in Panel C.
Panel B rescales the variables by the fund asset value so that ’D/(D+V)’ correspond to exp{δ(·)t +
dt } in equation 7 while ’N/V-1’ is the overall reporting distortion, exp{r̄0:t − r0:t + nt } − 1 in
equations (4–6). The panel also plots similar statistic for weekly series obtained by interpolating
as reported NAVs at the rate of comparable asset returns Rct while accounting for the cash flows
between the quarters (henceforth, ’Rct -interpolated NAVs’, see equation (A.10) below). Essentially,
this is a nowcast of fund NAVs that assumes no appraisal bias present and a unit βc as in equation
(2), providing for a natural benchmark to evaluate the SSM-based nowcasts.
The since-inception return corresponding to ’Rct -interpolated NAVs’ is plotted against the true
since-inception returns (R0:t in equation (4)) in Panel C. By construction, the two series are tightly
correlated and occasionally coincide (e.g., around 250th and 350th weeks). Even though the fund
is fully resolved by the 626th week and the expected per-period difference in idiosyncratic risk
realization—ηct in equation 2—is zero, the series diverge notably towards the end of fund life
nonetheless. The reason for this divergence is the assumptions embedded in the interpolation
procedure in equation (A.10), namely: (i) reported NAVs reflect the true value of fund assets, and
(ii) distributions reduce remaining NAVs one-for-one.
As evident from Panel B and C, the series based on NAV interpolation overshoot whenever the
fund makes distributions following the quarter with downward-biased NAVs. Intuitively, the returns
during periods following these distributions have to be higher than true ones to “catch-up” with
the subsequent NAV report, especially if the latter is less [more] negatively [positively] biased than
the previous. These dynamics are present but concealed with since-inception money multiples (also
plotted in Panel C), which unlike R0:t are Vt−1 -weighted per period return, therefore exhibiting
very little variation after Vt gets small in front peak values (around week-200 in this case).30
Figure A.2 depicts the SSM likelihood scores and the pricing error via 3-dimensional mesh plots
on Panel A. Both are normalized by subtracting the grid-wide mean and dividing by standard
deviation. It follows from Panel A that the SSM likelihood scores do peak with respect to β around
the value of 1.20 but hardly exhibit any curvature along the α-axis. In contrast, the flat region
in the surface of pricing errors is off-diagonal.31 Therefore, subtracting these pricing errors from
the SSM likelihood scores—i.e., “penalizing the SSM likelihood”—tends to result in a sharp peak
across both dimensions, as plotted on Panel B. In our case, the maximum corresponds to the (α, β)
pair of (0.308%,1.15)—close to the OLS estimates of (0.327%,1.26) that one would obtain if weekly
(Rt − 1) were regressed on (Rmt − 1), especially when compared to those from quarterly OLS
estimates feasible with real fund data which are plotted as the blue rectangle in Panel B.32
As discussed in the main text, having identified the pair of α and β, we iteratively estimate the
asset-to-value mapping ad the remaining parameters. For this case study fund, this mapping-toparameter convergence took 12 iterations and resulted in the following (α, β, ϑ)-vector, whereby
standard errors were obtained using numerical differentiation (see, e.g., Miranda and Fackler, 2004):
Estimate
SE(Est)

α
.0031
.0043

β
1.154
0.643

δ
.0432
.0141

σd
1.488
1.349

λ
.7918
0.0805

σn
.0121
.0014

F
2.014
0.832

Fc
.7853
.108

ψ
.0021
.0018

βc
.713
0.182

Panel A of Figure A.3 examines the quality of per period fund return estimates for our case fund
by plotting the difference between r̂0t obtained from the SSM parametrized with θ-values tabulated
above and the true r0t as a solid red line. In is natural to compare it to a similar difference
obtained from the intuitive approach based on ’Rct -interpolated NAVs’ plotted with dotted red
line here (obtained by subtracting the solid line from the dashed one in Panel C of Figure A.1). It
30

See Brown et al. (2019) for a discussion on inference about NAV appraisal bias with multiples.
That is typically the case with an upward-trending market return—without regularly spaced intervals, high cumulative
returns can be “equally well explained” by either high slope or large intercept.
32
For example, regressing quarterly ’cash flow’-adjusted quarterly growth in NAV on contemporaneous and lagged market
returns yields a beta estimate of at most 0.84 and 0.4 if weekly returns based on ’Rct -interpolated NAVs’ are used.
31

Appendix - 6

follows that the SSM-based series tend to be closer to the true fund returns during and after the
parameter estimation period. The panel also compares three Asset-to-Value mapping functions for
our case study fund: the initial guess, the true, and iteratively estimated one as discussed above.
The latter two tend to be closer indicating that the SSM provides for a better guess of the true
asset values on the cash flow dates.
Panel A of Figure A.3 also conveys the general intuition of our approach—our fund return prediction for a week is a scaled weighted average of rct and rmt unless there is a NAV report or
distribution that justify ηct 6= 0 (see equation 2).33 A distribution also shifts the mapping function
up in proportion to its size relatively to the remaining asset value estimate.
As for nowcasting performance metrics introduced in Section 2.3, the Hybrid and OOS RMSE for
the estimated model-based series are, respectively, 0.066 and 0.063. Both compare favorably with
the respective metrics based on the Naı̈ve nowcast of fund approach (see A.10).
Finally, we note that Figure A.3 there appears to be no sharp change in the SMM performance
in the post-estimation period (397th week). This is to be expected in the case the SSM parameters
are stable during the fund life which might not necessary be the case with real-life PE funds. Either
way, to the extent the choice of parameter estimation window length is not identifying structural
breaks, one can consider the in-sample PME(SSM) values as a predictor of Hybrid and OOS metrics.
Specifically, we compute mean squared deviation from one for the during 156 weeks before tb .

A.4.2

Simulated panel of funds

The case study fund is a draw from the following data generating process. First, we simulate market
returns Rmt from a normal distribution with GARCH(1,1) volatility process corresponding to the
unconditional volatility of 20% per annum.34 We then create 25 vintage years each featuring four
funds that operate for at most 13 years (=676 weeks) and have β ∼ N(1.25, 0.125) with respect to
Rmt and α ∼ N(0, 0.0022), both fixed during fund life. In addition, each fund returns are driven by
mean-zero shocks drawn at weekly frequency as a mixture of two heteroskedastic normal shocks,
one of which is common within vintage but temporarily independent still, and Poisson jumps (see
next paragraph). Meanwhile the benchmark returns, Rct , are obtained by averaging the common
components of fund returns within each vintage-week (i.e. 1 + βi (Rmt − 1) plus the common shock).
To construct fund non-Rmt returns, ηt , for each week we draw two independent normal shocks
from N(0, ht ) where log(ht ) ∼ N(ρ0 + ρ1 log(ht−1 ), vv 2 ). We add the two shocks together assuming
that the vintage-wide shock comprises 1/3 and the fund-specific—2/3. This implies that if we
use Rct -based estimates in place of ĥt , the true value of the volatility scale F equals 2 while the
Eηt2 = 0.40.35 In addition, in spirit of simulations in Korteweg and Nagel (2017), we assume that
each week there is 10% probability of a 10% idiosyncratic increase in fund asset value. We draw
these jumps from a Poisson distribution, add them to the normal shocks, and demean the sum to
zero over each fund life before adding to 1 + αi + βi (Rmt + 1) for each fund-week t to obtain Rt .
Next we construct fund cash flows and asset values. Fund cash flow occurrences are drawn from a
Poisson distribution parametrized such that there is on average 15 capital calls lasting through the
225th week and 20 distributions per fund starting with 105th week. The first capital call is equal to
1 with subsequent capital calls (conditional on occurrence) equal to 0.25. Fund distribution process
follows equation (9) with δ set to 0.04 while σd = 1.20. The distribution amounts are determined
sequentially with fund true asset values following equations (3–7). Each fund life ends (i.e., t = T )
on either 676th week or the week in which its true asset values drop below 0.1 (i.e. 10% of the
initial capital call) with the last distribution set to equal VT (and the latter replaced with zero).
Finally, the quarterly observed NAVs are constructed using equations (5–6) by setting λ to 0.9
and drawing observation noise, ent , from N(0, 0.05) independently for each fund-quarter. When
constructing the weekly Rct -interpolated NAVs to estimate change in mapping in equation (A.8)
and λ(·)t -process in equation (8), we interpolate the values of ent between the adjacent quarters
inducing the same autocorrelation pattern in the estimands as if it were real PE fund data.
33

This can also be a secondary trade in fund stake, or a comparable exit, or a financing round for the portfolio company.
The persistence terms on squared return and lagged variance are 0.10 and 0.85, respectively.
35
ρ0= −0.5784, ρ1=0.9, vv=0.40p.a., to match the idiosyncratic return volatility estimates in Korteweg and Sorensen (2010).
34

Appendix - 7

Table A.1 reports estimation results for the main parameters of interest and the pricing error
criteria using the holdout fund-weeks as discussed in Section 2.3. First seven columns of each panel
report the means and the medians of parameter estimates across the 100 of simulated funds as
well as the first, second, and third quartile of the root mean squared error of the fund estimate
relatively to the true parameter value. Last four columns report PME(V ˆ(θ), r(θ)), denoted with
subscript f und, and PME(N AV, rc ), denoted with subscript bmk, for pseudo out-of-sample and
fully out-of-sample case. The sample of 100 simulated funds is common across panels, therefore
P OSbmk and F OSbmk are the same panel-wise reflecting same N AVt and rct series.
Panel A reports Direct Estimates as in Section 2.4.1 (henceforth, Baseline) and reveals that
estimated parameters are typically close to the true values, exhibiting minimal bias for (β, λ σn ), in
particular. A notable upward bias as well as high levels of RMSE relatively to the true parameter
values are evident for σd and, perhaps, for δ. Panel A also shows an advantage of using fund return
and asset values estimates (over the matched benchmark and as reported NAVs) as both, Hybrid
and OOS, PME(V ˆ(θ), r(θ)) tend to be closer to 1 than PME(N AV, rc ), while median OOS RMSE
at 0.1171 is less than half of 0.2841 corresponding to the naı̈ve approach.36
In Panel B, we assume the distribution function δ(·)t to be known and feature no uncertainty
σd = 0. As discussed in Section A.2.2, this corresponds to a situation in which one can observe
the fund individual investments’ valuation reports and exit terms. Unsurprisingly, this helps with
estimation precision, especially, with respect to the variance parameters—F (σn ) is no longer downward (upward) biased while the associated RMSEs are smaller by a factor of 4 to 15. Interestingly,
the presence of jumps in the fund return process does not prevent consistency in estimating the
volatility scale parameter via MLE which assumes conditionally Gaussian returns. The gains in
precision are also notable for β estimation whereby RMSEs drop by half, as well as for the smoothing parameter, λ. All these translate in better nowcasting performance as Hybrid (OOS) 75th
percentile RMSEs drop to 0.0093(0.1298) from 0.0230(.2368) in Panel A.
In Panel C, we misspecify δ(·)t by assuming in the estimation that δ(·)t is proportional to the
time since last distribution (rather than the time since inception) as in Korteweg and Nagel (2016).
As discussed in Section A.2.2, this induces autocorrelation in the error term of the distribution
equation 7. It follows that this has virtually no adverse effects on the identification of the model
parameters relatively to Baseline, other than δ and σd themselves. Neither does it materially affect
the nowcasting performance relatively to Baseline, consistent with the case study evidence.
In Panel D, we implement the partial imputation approach discussed in Section 2.4.2. While we
do observe improvements to RMSE on a few parameters including β, these are somewhat predetermined by the homogeneity in the parameters across funds, and do not translate in meaningful
improvements with regards to nowcasting.
Figure A.4 plots the individual fund estimates of α and β from our SSM against the corresponding
OLS estimates obtain with weekly returns (infeasible with the actual PE data). Panel A shows
that profiled α are well aligned with what one could have estimated if PE funds weekly returns
were observable, even though slightly downward biased. For β, we continue to observe a positive
relation between the two sets of estimates although much greater noise is present.
Finally, Figure A.4 compares the nowcasting performance as per Baseline estimations against the
naı̈ve approach that utilizes as reported NAVs and matched benchmark returns. Panel C focus on
pseudo out-of-sample metric while Panel D—on fully out-of-sample ones, as discussed in Section 2.3.
For better visualization, we utilize the logs of variances so the magnitudes are harder to read than
RMSEs from Table A.1. However, it is clear from that our SSM approach results in better nowcasts
for a significant majority of simulated funds regardless of the metric.
Panel C of Figure A.3 compares the nowcast performance of the SSM parametrized with these θ
for our case study by plotting the quarterly RMSEs for NAV estimation error against those from
the same SSM parametrized with fund-specific estimates referred to as Baseline. We see that NAV
estimates based on Partially imputed θ are often smaller but typically close to the Baseline. The
improvement is due the fact that the peer-imputed (λ, F, σn ) are close to the true values than those
estimated directly, which may or may not be true with real-life funds. For comparison, Panel C also
plots quarterly NAV errors for the case when the distribution function δ(·)t need not be estimated
which—as discussed in Section A.2.2—could be the individual deal-level transparency at the fund.
36

In untabulated analysis, we review an estimator which profiles α only. It results in larger nowcasting errors.

Appendix - 8

Figure A.1. Case study: Data for a hypothetical fund
This figure reports data for a hypothetical PE fund to illustrate our method applications. See Section A.4.1
for description.

Panel A: Cash flows and reported NAVs normalized by first capital call

Panel B: Cash flows and reported NAVs normalized by Asset Values

Panel C: Cumulative returns and Multiples

Appendix - 9

Figure A.2. Case study: Profiled Likelihood
This figure illustrates selected parameters’ identification for a hypothetical PE fund to illustrate our method
applications. See Section A.4.1 for description.

Panel A: SSM likelihood and the Penalty function

Panel B: Penalized likelihood

Appendix - 10

Figure A.3. Case study: Nowcasting results
This figure demonstrates nowcasts obtained from a SSM for a hypothetical PE fund to illustrate our method
applications. See Section A.4.1 for description.

Panel A: Return estimates and Mapping to Asset Values

Panel B: Asset Value estimates and PMEs

Panel C: Asset Values estimates from models with fewer parameters

Appendix - 11

Figure A.4. Monte Carlo experiment: cross-section of α,β and nowcasting
performance
This figure reports SSM estimates on simulated fund data described in Section A.4.2. The dotted and dashed
lines are, respectively, the 45-degree and the least-squared fit lines. Panel A (B) plots the OLS estimates—
which are BLUE but infeasible with the real data—of funds’ α (β) on x-axis against the SSM-based estimates
on y-axis. A positive association and low variance across y-axis indicate good performance of our method.
Whereas Panels C and D plot the log of mean squared error obtained using matched benchmark returns on
x-axis against SSM-based estimated fund returns on y-axis. Panel C (D) uses Hybrid (Out-of-Sample) metric
discussed in Section 2.3. Observations below the 45-degree line indicate outperformance of our method over
a naı̈ve approach that simply uses public benchmark returns to model fund NAVs.

Panel A: α estimates

Panel B: β estimates

Panel C: log MSE Hybrid

Panel D: log MSE OOS

Appendix - 12

Table A.1. Monte Carlo experiment: parameter estimates and nowcasting
performance
This table reports SSM estimates on simulated fund data described in Section A.4.2. Each reports seven
key parameters of interest as well Hybrid and Out-of-Sample (OOS) nowcasting metrics as discussed in
Section 2.3, whereby subscripts bmk and f und denote to the matched benchmark return and SSM-filtered
fund return series, respectively. ’Est. mean’ and ’Est. median’ refer to the simulated fund sample mean and
median estimate of the respective parameter (or of PME against the respective return series for Hybrid/OOS
columns). ’RMSE p25/p50/p75’ refer to the respectively percentile of the Root Mean Squared Error relatively
to the true parameter value (or 1 for Hybrid/OOS columns). Panel A reports the results for baseline
estimation approach, Panel B treats distribution function as known, Panel C misspecifies the estimated
distribution function relatively to the simulated data. Panel D reports results for partially matched parameter
estimates.

Panel A: Baseline
α
Est. mean
Est. median
RMSE p25
RMSE p50
RMSE p75

β

δ

λ

F

σd

σn

Hybridnai

-0.0006 1.2306 0.0485 0.8722 1.7111 2.0340 0.0524 1.4805
-0.0002 1.2264 0.0470 0.8955 1.4746 2.0364 0.0547 1.1250
0.0008 0.1406 0.0133 0.0192 0.4006 0.6812 0.0169 0.0333
0.0022 0.3591 0.0170 0.0544 0.7147 0.8812 0.0358 0.1250
0.0038 0.5730 0.0225 0.0802 1.4178 1.0314 0.0490 0.3069

Hybridssm

OOSnai

OOSssm

1.0422
1.0093
0.0022
0.0093
0.0230

0.9204
0.8547
0.1525
0.2841
0.4070

0.9911
0.9750
0.0418
0.1171
0.2368

Hybridssm

OOSnai

OOSssm

1.0098
1.0037
0.0012
0.0037
0.0093

0.9204
0.8547
0.1525
0.2841
0.4070

0.9952
1.0046
0.0313
0.0712
0.1298

Hybridssm

OOSnai

OOSssm

1.0428
1.0097
0.0019
0.0097
0.0226

0.9204
0.8547
0.1525
0.2841
0.4070

1.0396
0.9828
0.0492
0.1094
0.2364

Panel B: Known δ(·)t
α

β

δ

Est. mean
-0.0005 1.1978 Est. median -0.0002 1.2500 RMSE p25
0.0008 0.0961 RMSE p50
0.0022 0.2099 RMSE p75
0.0038 0.3621 -

λ

F

σd

0.8774 2.1717 0.9000 2.0000 0.0002 0.1000 0.0086 0.2417 0.0264 0.5690 -

σn

Hybridnai

0.0484 1.4805
0.0500 1.1250
0.0001 0.0333
0.0026 0.1250
0.0050 0.3069

Panel C: Misspecified δ(·)t
α
Est. mean
Est. median
RMSE p25
RMSE p50
RMSE p75

β

δ

λ

F

σd

σn

Hybridnai

-0.0006 1.2433 0.2308 0.8743 1.8297 3.8015 0.0502 1.4805
-0.0002 1.2264 0.2307 0.9065 1.5543 3.9367 0.0530 1.1250
0.0008 0.1362 0.1647 0.0223 0.3395 2.4508 0.0169 0.0333
0.0023 0.3541 0.2007 0.0482 0.8104 2.6415 0.0347 0.1250
0.0038 0.5644 0.2359 0.0861 1.4166 2.8139 0.0490 0.3069

Panel D: Partially matched parameters (from Baseline)
α
Est. mean
Est. median
RMSE p25
RMSE p50
RMSE p75

β

δ

λ

F

σd

σn

Hybridnai

-0.0006 1.3216 0.0481 0.8722 1.7111 2.0409 0.0524 1.4805
-0.0002 1.3481 0.0460 0.8974 1.6058 2.0509 0.0460 1.1250
0.0009 0.0837 0.0131 0.0099 0.3305 0.6909 0.0055 0.0333
0.0024 0.1853 0.0160 0.0324 0.4728 0.8766 0.0118 0.1250
0.0040 0.3737 0.0216 0.0536 0.8356 1.0426 0.0209 0.3069

Appendix - 13

Hybridssm

OOSnai

OOSssm

1.0113
1.0058
0.0015
0.0058
0.0141

0.9204
0.8547
0.1525
0.2841
0.4070

0.9811
0.9686
0.0584
0.1108
0.2196

Table A.2. Real Estate Private Equity (REPE) funds
This table reports summary statistics for the sample of 486 Real Estate funds in our sample, selected SSM
parameter estimates, filtered returns, and nowcasting performance metrics. See Tables 1 and 3 for definitions
and details.

Summary statistics:
Vintage year
Fund size (USD mil.)
Fund life (years)
IRR(%)
Money Multiple
PME (v. CRSP VW)
# Capital Calls
# Distributions
# NAV reports
% Resolved
# Quarters w/ Dist.> 0
w/ Dist > 5% of Fund

mean

sd

skew

p5

p10

p25

p50

p75

p90

p95

2003.2
607.0
10.8
4.9
1.3
0.9
23.6
31.9
19.1
86.2
9.5
5.6

4.6
860.5
1.4
13.7
0.6
0.5
18.8
23.0
2.6
19.7
5.8
4.4

-1.1
6.1
-1.1
-0.3
0.6
0.9
1.7
1.4
-0.6
-2.0
0.2
1.0

1989
16
6.40
-38.5
0.12
0.080
3
1
13
14.1
0
0

1994
73
7.98
-17.6
0.36
0.22
6
5
14
39.2
1
0

2000
206
9.83
-2.42
0.86
0.56
11
16
18
82.3
5
2

2005
396.5
11.2
6.06
1.30
0.86
16
26
20
95.3
9
5

2007
684
12.0
13.2
1.62
1.21
30
45
21
99
14
8

2008
1725.0
12.0
25.6
2.22
1.75
63
77
23
99.7
19
14

2008
4001
12.0
33.6
3.22
2.27
92
117
24
100
22
18

mean

p25

p50

p75

mean

p25

0.048
−0.004
0.001
0.001

0.097
0.084
0.077
0.077

0.796
0.891
0.912
0.893

0.576
0.717
1.005
0.875

p50

p75

0.727
0.922
1.006
1.000

1.148
1.089
1.006
1.000

0.928
0.923
0.947
0.953

0.976
0.972
0.947
0.953

Key parameter estimates:
α
Fund-specific
Peer-imputed
Average-imputed
Literature-imputed

0.031
−0.020
−0.019
−0.019

−0.031
−0.097
−0.091
−0.092

β

Fc
Fund-specific
Peer-imputed
Average-imputed
Literature-imputed

0.861
1.257
0.969
0.982

0.788
0.875
0.818
0.813

λ
0.917
0.991
0.905
0.924

1.010
1.144
1.070
1.085

0.817
0.889
0.890
0.894

0.821
0.818
0.914
0.922

Filtered return properties:
Quarterly return autocorrelation
Naive nowcast
Fund-specific
Peer-imputed
Average-imputed
Literature-imputed

0.385
0.001
0.019
−0.139
−0.130

0.230
−0.182
−0.182
−0.336
−0.332

0.416
0.015
−0.006
−0.168
−0.168

0.593
0.192
0.187
0.001
−0.004

Quarterly return variance
0.049
0.082
0.052
0.077
0.076

0.005
0.010
0.019
0.042
0.041

0.009
0.025
0.029
0.056
0.055

0.018
0.076
0.047
0.077
0.077

Nowcast performance assessment:
Hybrid RMSE
Naive nowcast
Fund-specific
Peer-imputed
Average-imputed
Literature-imputed

0.333
0.161
0.176
0.208
0.203

0.158
0.037
0.048
0.072
0.072

0.295
0.075
0.092
0.133
0.130

OOS RMSE
0.476
0.174
0.197
0.259
0.246

Appendix - 14

0.335
0.227
0.161
0.215
0.206

0.147
0.052
0.050
0.062
0.053

0.274
0.134
0.101
0.133
0.131

0.470
0.262
0.194
0.255
0.251

